## [Does Museveni practice nepotism?](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150090001127681)  

Thursday, January 27, 2011 at 12:02pm


A Ugandan doctor sent me this message after reading my response to Nina Mbabazi's angry questions over Mulago (http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=495341352680) that sought to pass responsibility for Uganda's healthcare mess onto individual doctors while refusing to accept that the government has primary responsibility.

She also volunteered the information that Diana Atwine heading the task force in the presidents office is an NRM cadre and adopted daughter of President Museveni! This increases the number of members of the first family involved in government business and again goes back to the issue of nepotism and corruption involving the president himself!

I do not see Jim Muhwezi in this list, do you? So why would I want to listen to what Mbabazi's daughter has to say? http://www.newvision.co.ug/D/8/12/744959

Granted, I do not condone theft, but until those big shots are dragged to the same prisons, I will keep qiuet. The Chinese have a saying that if you sit by the river long enough, you will see your enemies bodies floating past.

120 officials probed over govt drugs

Wednesday, 26th January, 2011

By M. Tebajjukira

A total of 120 officials are being investigated over the theft of drugs worth billions of shillings, according to the director of the medicine and health service delivery monitoring unit, Dr. Diana Atwine.

Addressing the press at the Media Centre , Atwine said that the government officials were also being investigated over embezzlement and abuse of office.

Out of the 120 cases, Atwine said 21 officials had been convicted and other files submitted to the director of public prosecutions.

"All cases involve senior officials. Some are auditors and others are in charge of drugs," Atwine said.

The cases included theft of drugs worth over sh5b, misappropriation of funds and abuse of office.

Atwine was reacting to the conviction of Dr. Samuel Kamba, a senior planner in the Ministry of Health.

Atwine told journalists that Kamba was sentenced to three years in prison by the Anti-corruption Court on Tuesday. Atwine added that Kamba had to pay sh37m.

The money was part of sh48m he requisitioned for the annual health sector performance report for the year 2008/2009.

Atwine also said last week, two medical officers were arrested over drug theft, but declined to reveal their names.

She lashed out at the public over remarks that the corruption fight targeted only 'small fish'. She explained that investigating 'big fish' needed a lot of time since they dealt with a lot of money.

Atwine urged the public to volunteer information relating to drug theft through the toll-free line 0800100447 or 0414-288445/2.

The monitoring unit, created in 2009, is mandated to evaluate the performance of health centres. It has since widened its scope to include looking at how drugs are ordered, received and distributed.

Atwine disclosed that her team arrested a fifth-year medical student, Mathias Sseviri, over the theft of cancer drugs worth sh1b from Mulago Hospital. He is on remand at Luzira Prison.
