## [Does anyone listen to FB debates?](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/does-anyone-listen-to-fb-debates/10150303436277681)

Monday, September 19, 2011 at 8:03pm ·


Johnson Karengye Mujungu says, "wondering what becomes of some of the rather very serious conversations that frequently take place on facebook. is facebook only an intellectual/emotional therapy of sorts?"

https://www.facebook.com/jmujungu/posts/10150322771489198?cmntid=10150322803429198

Johnson Karengye Mujungu, thanks.

I think it is true that a lot of the time, FB is used for venting.

But its also true that facebook reflects what a section of Ugandans insidie and outside the country are thinking which is very different from the official line fed to the media by the government.

Quite frankly if there is someone in government who is responsive to the mood of the people, they should be paying attention to FB. Its a great resource for government research and policy development. One can formulate which questions to ask and which areas to pay attention to by following the main topics on FB.

There is no doubt that politics, tribalism, corruption, and poor delivery of services are hot topics to be ignored by the government at their own peril. There is also no doubt that patience with foreign companies that fleece Ugandans is wearing thin -Umeme, Tullow, Mehta. Impunity and government brutality are also questioned as have the powers of the presidency.

The benefits of privatisation have been queried as is the myth of economic growth! Term limits and a redundant and overpaid political administration are being queried.

Opposition parties have not been given a free ride too and many of them have been found as wanting as the government they wish to replace.

Overall Ugandans seem to be formulating the questions they wish to see answered by the government but it appears to continue floundering making mistake after mistake!

The shine wore off the NRM a long time ago! Museveni and the NRM were and have been demystified by FB.

TAlk about open source politics!

I know for a fact that many of these talks continue behind the scenes. I personally write more off line (inbox) than I do online if you think at all that thats possible. And I know that some of the stuff I write has been read in some of the highest offices in the land -NOT with joy! But some of the feedback i have had suggests they do understand that they ignore what we write here at their own peril. I know that some facebook discussions have been incorporated into government policy and decision making and that they have had to check the sources of some of their own figures.

Many government apologists faced with real facts and opinions from real people have had to retreat from FB save for those with really tiny brains who cannot see when they are making fools of themselves!

The glossy figures on economic growth fall flat in the face of evidence of widesprea poverty. Either someone is making up the figures or the distribution of wealth is poor and the so called economic growth is not trickling down or improving peoples lives.

The same can be said of health! All I need to do to shut up any government functionary on health is to ask them to visit a ward in Mulago or their local health centre and report back! Only Nina Mbabazi ever took up the challenge and when she came back from Kabale hospital, she was singing my tune as was yellow girl Alice!!! Most of the others faced with the same challenge disappeared or changed their names.

SO no I do not think that everything we say just gets lost in the ether. Self interest is an interesting thing and a powerful motivator. FB is free research for the government and unless they employ analysts, researchers and policy makers instead of spies in responding to the real issues raised in FB debates, they will end up like Gbabo, Mubarak, Ben Ali and Gaddafi -of that I am very sure!
