2011electionsquickthoughts.txt | 2011 elections -Quick thoughts
bwindihospitalwhyarestrangersdoingourgovernmentsjob.txt | Bwindi hospital -why are strangers doing our governments job?
defendingmysweetheartnina.txt | Defending my sweetheart, Nina!
doesanyonelistentofbdebates.txt | Does anyone listen to FB debates?
doesmusevenipracticenepotism.txt | Does Museveni practice nepotism?
doestheiphonegenerationinthediasporahavetherighttocriticisemuseveniandkagame.txt | Does the iphone generation in the diaspora have the right to criticise Museveni and Kagame?
facebookhomeamosforhowlongarewesupposedtobe.txt | For how long are we supposed to be beholden to those who fought?
footsoldiersquestioningtheirseniors.txt | Footsoldiers questioning their seniors
healthusingfigurestotelllies.txt | Health -Using figures to tell lies!
igpspressconferencekayihuraneedsarefreshercourseoncrowdpsychologyandcrowdcontrol.txt | IGP's press conference -Kayihura needs a refresher course on crowd psychology and crowd control!
kingofugandadukeofankole | King of Uganda, Duke of Ankole
lesvainqueursprennentimmdiatementlesvicesdesvaincus.txt | Les vainqueurs prennent immédiatement les vices des vaincus
lettertokakwenzirethenrmiscorruptnoamountofspinisgoingtochangethat.txt | Letter to Kakwenzire: The NRM is corrupt -no amount of spin is going to change that!
lettertoninaagoldenoldiedoyouguyshaveanyanalysts.txt | Letter to Nina -a golden oldie; do you guys have any analysts?
lettertoninaaipariongsbloodisonthehandsofthenrmgovernment.txt | Letter to Nina -AIP Ariongs blood is on the hands of the NRM government!
lettertoninaavictoryallupinapuffofsmoke.txt | Letter to Nina -a victory all up in a puff of smoke.
lettertoninabanangemukulaisreallyrainingonmusevenisparty.txt | Letter to Nina -Banange Mukula is really raining on Museveni's party!
lettertoninabanangewhathasnagendabeendrinking.txt | Letter to Nina -Banange what has Nagenda been drinking?
lettertoninabanangewhatswiththepanic.txt | Letter to Nina -banange whats with the panic?
lettertoninadoesthenrmreallyneednewlawstofightcorruption.txt | Letter to Nina -Does the NRM really need new laws to fight corruption?
lettertoninahospitalbedsandnrmincompetenceinhealth.txt | Letter to Nina. Hospital beds and NRM incompetence in health.
lettertoninahowdoyouputlipstickonapig.txt | Letter to Nina -How do you put lipstick on a pig?
lettertoninaifthemuseveniof1986metthemuseveniof2011hewouldhavehimshotonsight.txt | Letter to Nina -if the Museveni of 1986 met the Museveni of 2011, he would have him shot on sight.
lettertoninaifyouguysaregoingtotalkaboutpatriotismyouneedtostartputtingyourmoneywhereyourmouthis.txt | Letter to Nina -If you guys are going to talk about patriotism, you need to start putting your money where your mouth is!
lettertoninaimaynotagreewithwhatyousaybutiwilldefendyourrighttosayit.txt | Letter to Nina -I may not agree with what you say, but I will defend your right to say It
lettertoninaimpatientyoungmenaretemptedtoturntorevoltbecausenonoticeistakenoftheirquestions.txt | Letter to Nina -impatient young men ... are tempted to turn to revolt because no notice is taken of their questions.
lettertoninakatayimbwamurdersandtheelusivenrmpeaceandsecurity.txt | Letter to Nina -Katayimbwa murders and the elusive NRM peace and security!
lettertoninalearningtosharetheloot.txt | Letter to Nina -Learning to share the loot!
lettertoninamahoganykalyogsandyourpeoplewhoarenevergoingtogetit.txt | Letter to Nina -Mahogany, Kalyogs and your people who are never going to get it?
lettertoninamusevenisriotingsoldiersandpolicementimetomakeexitplans.txt | Letter to Nina -Museveni's rioting soldiers and policemen
lettertoninamusevenisriotingsoldiersandpolicemen.txt | Letter to Nina -Museveni's rioting soldiers and policemen; time to make exit plans
lettertoninaneverkickamanalreadyontheground.txt | Letter to Nina -never kick a man already on the ground!!!
lettertoninanewcabinetthenrmisreallyoutofideas.txt | Letter to Nina -New cabinet; the NRM is really out of ideas!
lettertoninanowyouthinkyoucanteachmeaboutpatriotism.txt | Letter to Nina -now you think you can teach me about patriotism?
lettertoninaofpayinghomagetomediocrityandthelackofvision.txt | Letter to Nina -Of paying homage to mediocrity and the lack of vision!
lettertoninaofscholarshipskeptunderthebedanddistributedonthebed.txt | Letter to Nina -of scholarships kept under the bed and distributed on the bed!
lettertoninaoppositionpoliticsthinktanksandnationalconferences.txt | Letter to Nina -opposition politics, think tanks and national conferences.
lettertoninaovergovernancewecanconcludethatthenrmgovernmentisuselesstougandans.txt | Letter to Nina -Overgovernance; we can conclude that the NRM government is useless to Ugandans
lettertoninapaesantsinsuitsshouldnotbeallowedtosignawayugandansfuture.txt | Letter to Nina -paesants in suits should not be allowed to sign away Ugandans future!
lettertoninapatriotismandnationalguidancepreachedbydishonourblewomen.txt | Letter to Nina -Patriotism and national guidance preached by dishonourble women!
lettertoninapresidentmusevenisaddresstothenation.txt | Letter to Nina -President Museveni's address to the nation
lettertoninarandomanswersonhealthinug.txt | Letter to Nina -Random answers on health in UG.
lettertoninassegawaissooffpointandisselfisharrogantlacksempathyandsensitivitytoteachers.txt | Letter to Nina -Ssegawa is so off point and is selfish, arrogant, lacks empathy and sensitivity to teachers!!!
lettertoninastatecaptureandthebahimadebate.txt | Letter to Nina -State capture and the Bahima debate
lettertoninasugarisgoingtotoppleyourregime.txt | Letter to Nina -sugar is going to topple your regime!!!
lettertoninathelunaticsareinchargeoftheasylum.txt | Letter to Nina -The lunatics are in charge of the asylum.
lettertoninathepaesantgeneralsareonlyfitorbulungibwansinottorunamoderncountry.txt | Letter to Nina -the paesant Generals are only fit or bulungi bwansi not to run a modern country!
lettertoninatheratsareburningdownthehouse.txt | Letter to Nina -the rats are burning down the house!
lettertoninatheultimatetruthispenultimatelyalwaysafalsehood.txt | Letter to Nina -The ultimate truth is penultimately always a falsehood.
lettertoninatheverminofafricaarerisingup.txt | Letter to Nina -the vermin of Africa are rising up!
lettertoninathosewhocannotlearnfromhistoryaredoomedtorepeatit.txt | Letter to Nina -Those who cannot learn from history, are doomed to repeat it!
lettertoninaugandanhealthserviceswhydoesugandalosedoctorstorwanda.txt | Letter to Nina -Ugandan health services. Why does Uganda lose doctors to Rwanda!
lettertoninaugandanroadswhenpotholesareaninsulttopotholes.txt | Letter to Nina -Ugandan roads. When potholes are an insult to potholes!
lettertoninaweallhavebigmouthshowcomesonlybanyankolegetshutupwithfatbrownenvelopes.txt | Letter to Nina -we all have big mouths! How comes only Banyankole get shut up with fat brown envelopes?
lettertoninaweneedtermlimitsback.txt | Letter to Nina -we need term limits back
lettertoninawhenareyouguysgoingtogohome.txt | Letter to Nina -when are you guys going to go home?
lettertoninawhenratsstarttodesertasinkingship.txt | Letter to Nina -When rats start to desert a sinking ship!
lettertoninawhenthechickenscomehometoroost.txt | Letter to Nina -When the chickens come home to roost!
lettertoninawhenwinnerslosebywinning.txt | Letter to Nina -when winners lose by winning!
lettertoninawhoexactlyisinchargeinkampala.txt | Letter to Nina -who exactly is in charge in Kampala?
lettertoninawhoexactlyisrunningstatehouserightnow.txt | Letter to Nina -who exactly is running state house right now?
lettertoninawhybundibugyoandkabaleshouldsacktheirpoliticiansandrecruitmoredoctorsinstead.txt | Letter to Nina -why bundibugyo and Kabale should sack their politicians and recruit more doctors instead.
lettertoninawhycantamamaleadthenrmandthiscountry.txt | Letter to Nina -why can't Amama lead the NRM and this country?
lettertoninawhymusevenineedstoretirethenrmneedstodietogrowstrongerandbesigyemaoandotunnuneedtotalk.txt | Letter to Nina -Why Museveni needs to retire, the NRM needs to die to grow stronger and Besigye, Mao and Otunnu need to talk.
lettertoninawithyouguysinpowerugandansneedtocounttheirknivesandforks.txt | Letter to Nina -with you guys in power, Ugandans need to count their knives and forks!
lettertoninayoureallyneedtoletingridturinawegofree.txt | Letter to Nina -you really need to let Ingrid turinawe go free!
lotsofthings.txt | Lots of things!
lunacyiswhenyoukeepdoingthesamethingandexpectingadifferentresult.txt | Lunacy is when you keep doing the same thing and expecting a different result!
mtnfdccyberfreedomsandpoliticsinuganda.txt | MTN, FDC, cyber freedoms and politics in Uganda
musevenihasneverhadavisionfortheprovisionofadequatehealthcareservicestougandans.txt | Museveni has never had a vision for the provision of adequate healthcare services to ugandans!
musevenischildrentakingourcountryback.txt | Museveni's children -taking our country back!
ninabadmannersfightingoverfood.txt | Nina -Bad manners fighting over food
ninafirsttheycameforthecommunistsandididntspeakoutbecauseiwasntacommunist.txt | Nina -First they came for the communists, and I didn't speak out because I wasn't a communist.....
ninahowamancouldregainhissoul.txt | How a man could regain his soul
ninambabaziwhatdoesitprofitamantogaintheworldandlosehissoul.txt | Nina Mbabazi -What does it profit a man, to gain the world, and lose his soul?
ninatheconfirmationhearingsareasham.txt | Nina -the confirmation hearings are a sham!
ofillusionspost2011election.txt | Of illusions -post 2011 election
ofticksandfattedbulls.txt | Of ticks and fatted bulls!
pmamamambabaziwillhavetohuntdownandkillhisownanimal.txt | PM Amama Mbabazi will have to hunt down and kill his own animal!
pokingabeehivetoseewhatcomesout.txt | Poking a beehive -to see what comes out!
paesantsinsuits.txt | Potholes, poor infrastructure and peasants in suits!
predictionsmuseveniwillberemovedbyhisownpeoplenottheopposition.txt | Predictions -Museveni will be removed by his own people not the opposition
reallyhowhardcoulditbe | Really how hard could it be ....?
selectivejusticewhenyoungmendieforoldmenthestoryofchandijamwa.txt | Selective justice -when young men die for old men! The story of Chandi Jamwa
selfpreservationasamotivatorforchange.txt | Self preservation as a motivator for change.
singinglullabiestothe fattedcow.txt | Singing lullabies to the fatted cow!
someoneisreshufflingthesuccessionqueue.txt | Someone is reshuffling the succession queue!
storiesofwar.txt | Stories of war
temangaloresponsefromthepeople.txt | Temangalo -response from the people
theteachersofthiscountryareveryangry.txt | The teachers of this country are very angry!
toolittletoolategovernmentbycrisis.txt | Too little too late -government by crisis
whatdoesthestateoftheeconomysayaboutpublicconfidenceinthecurrentgovernment.txt | What does the state of the economy say about public confidence in the current government?
whenchangecomesfromveryunlikelyplaces.txt | When change comes from very unlikely places! 
twentymilliongiventompsfornaadsshouldhavebeengiventoheartinstitute.txt | When the ruling classes conspire to rob the tax payer
willthechildrenofnrmpoliticianshelpugandansescorttheirfathersbacktotheirvillages.txt | Will the children of NRM politicians help Ugandans escort their fathers back to their villages?


