## Footsoldiers questioning their seniors

Sunday, April 24, 2011 at 11:36pm


http://www.facebook.com/notes/mugerwa-james/nina-mbabazi-officially-against-nrmmuseveni-the-oppositions-big-fish-or-should-i/216921605001221  
   
http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=206299396070011  
   
   
Classified military expenditure has always been a trojan horse for channeling funds to intelligence organs.  
   
The war against terror is one such beast that many intelligence organs around the world have used to appropriate and sometimes misappropriate funds from their governments and justify their huge budgets.  
   
In Uganda, the word terrorist is so misused by intelligence organs as to almost lose meaning. It is such a catch all phrase it raises the question of whether the security organs really are being honest or whether they are lying. It also raises the question of whom they are lying to their boss Museveni or the general public. Either way it comes down to funding. By fighting some nebulous organisation representing some unquantified threat, they can request unlimited funds with very little accountability since everything is swept under the convenient umbrella of security.  
   
The question of whether the attack on Kampala was staged by Kampala's security organs was already discussed and dealt with. Am one of those who disagreed with conspiracy theorists who blamed the government for staging an attack that killed so many Ugandans.  
   
It does not invalidate the assertion atttributed to Nina if correct that the recent claim that Al Shabaab planned to attack Kampala over Easter maybe false. Everyone knows that Uganda's security services are overated that some people making assessments of threat are not too bright and exagerate them. This is no more demonstrated by the recent assessment of threat posed by walkers claiming they were planning to topple the government thus justifying the heavy handed approach that has resulted in embarrassing the government. One wonders who has hurt the government more Nina who raises the probability that there maybe incompetent or self serving individuals within the services providinbg wrong intel for profit or those services that provided wrong intel resulting in the government paining themselves into a corner and embarrassing their boss.  
   
Is it inconceivable that the security agencies have over called the threat in order to justify their funding? Is there not precedent in the war on the LRA in the north which dragged on for more than two decades primarily because it became a cash cow for individuals within the army who were benefitting financially?Museveni himself states his opinion of the assessments by his own security organisations.  
   
"I always read this rubbish in the intelligence reports -- that Besigye is planning this, Besigye is planning that. He is planning nothing, nothing, bure, bure bure (Kiswahili word for nothing). It is not possible, there is idiocy. "http://www.monitor.co.ug/News/National/-/688334/1150334/-/c27ffmz/-/index.html  
   
The very same question has been asked of western security organisations regarding their assessment of the threat level posed by Al Quaeda. In Uganda, our Al Quaeda is Al Shabaab. While Al Shabaab has demonstrated its reach by once bombing Kampala and while it is conceivable that they would want to bomb Kampala during the festive season, isn't it more likely that the government would like to divert attention from the walkers. It would also allow it to justify its heavy handed approach to walkers. It has already done so by labelling them terrorists and treating them as such and deploying troops on the streets against civilians. They also use the excuse of terrorism to explain their abuse of their own citizens to their allies in western governments. This apparently justifies all sorts of evils where anything goes including torture and murder.  
   
One has got to question what Mugerwa's interest in all of this is. To all intents and purposes, he is just a foot soldier while Nina is a party cadre well known personally to the greatest in the land. For all he knows, Nina is on a mission sanctioned by the greatest man in the land or the second greatest her father. He, a foot soldier is essentially questioning the wisdom of his bosses a sin punishable by things worse than death.  
   
It does raise the question again as to who Mugerwa is. He has tried very hard to hide his identity. He claims to be a lawyer but acts like a state agent. His posts are sometimes coherent and support his claim to being a lawyer while at other times, they are incoherent and disjointed suggesting either an inconsistent individual or more than two or three people. The fact that he admits to using drugs and medications in a pattern that may suggest prescription drug abuse may explain the various persona though posts by more than one person using the same name maybe the other explanation.  
   
It is common knowledge that the NRM has little internal democracy and does not tolerate individual thought. Is it possible then that Nina is immune to this party policy? Do her family ties inure her to attack from her fathers and his bosses minions? Or is she working for the party by giving the semblance of internal democracy. How does one inteprete this apparent liberalism that is unexpected and unprecedented in the years of the party?   
   
But is Mugerwa free of all personal interest in challenging Nina? Is he acting for himself or is he acting as an agent for others? Is he an overzealous minion hoping to get noticed? It is obvious by now that Mugerwa is some sort of intelligence agent probably military intelligence. Is he still active or is he a deserter trying to get back into the fold thus the overzealousness? Whenever the question is asked as to his name, rank and number, Mugerwa disappears or claims persecution. Who does Mugerwa work for and why does he think that he a minion has the right to question a princess of the party?
