## Who exactly is in charge in Kampala?

Wednesday, May 11, 2011 at 12:14am


Dear Nina,  
   
This is becoming a habit but one that is bringing great dividends. You would not believe how many people are reading our letters. I keep getting inboxes and online chats from perfect strangers excited by our letters. One of these days you too may respond and then I can guarantee there is going to be a lot of excitement.  
   
I hear that you too have been getting attention of the negative kind with various characters purporting to belong to the NRM calling on your father and President Museveni to muzzle you. Mbu they even made a presentation at Rwakitura. Banange this village chief mentality. At this rate, you may even get canonised. There is no doubt that there panic in the city. The poor bush boys just don't know what to do in the city. They are trained to look for kony's saucepans and kaunda suits in fancy places like Garamba and CAR. Its a wonder they are not shooting each other. these days they have graduated to looking for Al Quaeda from under the hijabs of somali women. But someone forgot to tell them what to do with unarmed civilians who had lost their fear of death. It kind of reminds me of my childhood. You see we grew up hearing the sound of bullets everyday -all because of Museveni who couldn't be happy with being a loser but had to cause caos just so that he could be president. Interestingly, he now finds it treasonous that anyone else could have the enfrontery to dream of doing what he himself did years ago.  
   
Today I chose to brush up on my Frantz Fanon as I haven't read him in a long time. In "Black skin, White Masks", Frantz Fanon stated that, "Sometimes people hold a core belief that is very strong. When they are presented with evidence that works against that belief, the new evidence cannot be accepted. It would create a feeling that is extremely uncomfortable, called cognitive dissonance. And because it is so important to protect the core belief, they will rationalize, ignore and even deny anything that doesn't fit in with the core belief."  
   
In many ways this reminds me of the confused NRM leaders and politicians. They are so confused right now they do not seem to know whether they are coming or going. For years, they have held the core belief that they are indispensable to Ugandans that they now cannot believe what is going on in the streets. No amount of intimidation appears to be making a difference. Helicopter gunsips, jet fighters, battle hardened mean looking soldiers armed to the teeth, lying ministers, incompetent policemen -nothing seems to scare Ugandans anymore these days.  
   
In September 2009, one of Museveni's very junior soldiers without any claim to royalty was annointed a king by Emperor Museveni. Immediately he was annointed, he started to grow wings as my late grandmother would say. According to him, the Kabaka of Buganda his overlord needed a visa to cross the line into his imaginary kingdom. Can you imagine the precendent? Should the Kabaka now demand visas from the Omukama's of Bunyoro and Toro before they can come to Kampala? Should every chairman of a cultural institution now be declared a king regardless of whether they have a historical claim to royalty or not? How representative are cultural associations and how are these chairpersons elected? Should the clan heads of each clan in Buganda or Bunyoro each clan bigger than the whole fictitious kingdom of Kayunga now be declared kings? After all they are bona fide cultural leaders with pedigrees going back 800 years.  
   
But I digress. I was talking about the point at which Museveni overcalled his hand and forever lost the power to cow Ugandans. Unless he is willing to use thiose guns, they really are just providing negative publicity. I now hear of 32 heads of state you previously boasted were coming to Kampala, only 7 are showing up, among those Uncle Bob and that guy from Djibouti whose people want to remove. I understand you are getting so desperate that you are asking Al Bashir to come to Kampala too. Obviously Uncle Gad will not be coming as he has a little problem with protestors whom he ordered shot dead and they refused to ide -or at least more seemed to come out of nowhere to replace them. You see for as long as no one was challenging Museveni except Kony, he could continue to pretend that he was a democrat. I did however warn you that should protestors go out into the street Tunisia style, that Museveni would respond like Ghadafi. And boy did he not? But contrary to the response he expected, people seem to be more and more fired up. Now he understands what our childhood was like. We used to call gunshots popcorn and virtually danced to them. People used to walk towards gunshots rather than away from them. Its because people lost their fear of death that he was able to get support for his war.  
   
This of course brings me to those stupid little districtets that you guys have created? What exactly possessed you to pander to every whim and fanciful notion that every village should have a district? I know that in Uganda the state has all of the resources and the incumbent uses them to control support. is it any wonder that each time you extend your patronage to a new "district", you add new seats to the NRM side of parliament? Is this not some sort of gerry mandering or could it be better called bribery? Today, I READ Afande Mugira's response to accusations that the hammer man who broke Besigye's car windows works with CMI and is former interahamwe. His response was quite frankly ashaming. Now I understand why Museveni does not trust or respect the security assessments of his security chiefs. Together with the interview with Tinyefunza on the same topic, one wonders who really is in charge of our security. I always thought that one had to be sharp to be put in charge of security but obviously not. Afande Mugira suggests that the hammer man was Besigye's supporter trying to give him a hammer. Really, surrounded by a ring of five police cars, and numerous battle ready dogs of war armed to the teeth which suicidal idiot would break the cordon? And why would the police allow him to anyway? Worse still why would he break the windows of Besigye's car in order to pass him a weapon, the hammer?  
   
Is there some illegal stuff passed around in security circles because quite frankly the statements coming out of them are apalling. Commander Kale seems to have been muzzled as has his girfriend Nabakooba. That will not be enough though. He really needs to resign before he gets pushed. Even old man kivedinha was now shut up. Hopefully the new cabinet reshuffle will retire him for good. As for Kayihura, one wonders how he is going to redeem himself. Now I hear your boys are lined up ready to do battle with protesters at City Square and harvest meat for sumbusa to be served to the guest tomorrow. Actually am told they are already busy cracking heads. Who exactly gives the orders to your troops? One would be forgiven for thinking that the opposition are the ones giving the orders in order to ensure that the innauguration on Thursday is a shambles. You know this is going to come back to bite your collective bum, dont you? The police is under a microscope and you are going to cope plenty of flac whether you realise it or not. Human rights Watch has already done its own investigation and concluded that at least ten people killed in the recent protests need further investigation. A previous report by Human Rights Watch again found at least 13 innocent people were killed by your forces. Of course you and I know what happened at Kasubi when Museveni ill advisably arrogantly walked into a beehive causing the deaths of 3 people. Interestingly despite abundant photo evidence, the governments security forces denied having shot those people. In an insult to the intelligence of all Ugandans, they brazenly suggested that the shooter was a member of the public and not their men. The commander that day was none other than Commander Muhoozi. You do know that the buck stops with the commander? I can predict that these deaths are not going to go away. The deaths of innocents will never go unpunished. Besigye returns to Kampala via Entebbe tomorrow. Its going to be interesting watching your security forces stuff their feet into their mouths.  
   
In 1980, people gathered along entebbe road to welcome back Prof Lule who had been rumoured to be returning that day. Instead of Lule, the minister for Defence drove through the crowds who were unhappy to see him. His guards shot in the air. Two people died that day. That Minsiter for Defence was Yoweri Museveni.  
   
You know, the more things change, the more things remain the same. There is money to be eaten on Thursday. Did you too get a contract?  IT, catering maybe? It is rumoured that those who are close to the kitty reward themselves with contracts that quite frankly are no better than air. A few years ago as a student, I came across this mafia at a conference organised throught the presidents office. I was appointed to the French desk because I do speak kifaransa. A few girls appointed tot he French desk too, did not speak a word of the language. I soon found out that they were all related to the lady who run everything. At the end of the day, I also found out that they were being paid more than me who actually spoke French. The guy who had the contract for IT services also provided registration services for several thousand delegates. His sole employee was his wife. He was the son of an NRM bigwig. His service was so slow it wasn't funny ... I know as I was the one coping the flack from delegates. I know that little has changed since. the transcipts of GAVI and CHOGM tell the story quite clearly.  
   
   
I am sure if you did not get a contract to supply sumbusa to the delagates, you must be the only one. I wonder whether the taxpayer gets a refund on all of that money budgeted for 32 heads of state if only 7 turn up. I do know however that i for one will not be holding my breath.
