## [Hospital beds and NRM incompetence in health.](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-hospital-beds-and-nrm-incompetence-in-health/10150202507397681)

Wednesday, May 25, 2011 at 12:30am ·


Dear Nina,

Its a few days since I last wrote to you. 

I did write you a letter which I started off as a letter to Patrick then realised I was duplicating the same things you raised in your letter. An accident with my power cable put paid to that letter for now but you will get it in due course. Half of it has already been published on FB inadvertently -its the changes to Patricks letter that got lost.

You do however ask a question below that I will try to answer.


> _"Illustration to Drew from World Bank Report (Health Sector) by [Nina Mbabazi](https://www.facebook.com/nina.mbabazi) on Monday, May 23, 2011 at 7:55pm

> Mr Ddembe,

> Can you explain if this drop in government expenditure in health is because we are having more babies or there is a policy flaw? I think the second chart shows the impact of the failed IMF/World bank Structural reforms in the Health sector 1994″_

The answer to your question is BOTH.While your question refers to health expenditure, your illustration actually shows a decline in the number of hospital beds per capita.

We are far behind the expected and agreed upon 15% of GDP that our governments pledged for Health expenditure (Christine Lalobo has the figures on that). We are over reliant on NGO and donor support and the bulk of expenditure on health is shifted to the consumer in addition to paying taxes. this of course has the effect of freeing our resources for wars we dont need and fighter jets we cannot really afford! This is one of the reasons that AID does not work!

The number of beds per capita in a third world country is a direct reflection of expenditure on health rather than efficiency because we are short of beds rather than oversupplied. In the west there is a trend towards decreasing the number of beds per capita by using them more efficiently, reducing lengths of stay, spending on primary and preventive care and funding General practitioners and community based health services. In a country like Uganda, there are virtually no state funded community based healthcare services, admission, diagnostics, treatment and discharge are inneficient thus long lengths of stay, General practice is 100% private funded, and medications and health personnel in short supply. Other bottlenecks to the management and discharge of patients from public hospitals are lack of medications, lack of theatre space and trained personnel and lack of social services.

For example a patient who comes to Mulago with a treatable condition for which there is a shortage of drugs will occupy a bed until the relatives can sell a goat or call their daughter in Boston to send money by Western Union. Sometimes the time between getting admitted, diagnosed and actually accessing treatment maybe days. I have seen doctors in Mulago pay for a patients medications from their own meagre salaries just to get the patient out of hospital! There are also many patients from upcountry who refuse to go home until they complete their treatment. This maybe many months for example say cancer patients. Other patients may again refuse to go home for months because socially their conditions have made them outcasts like say vaginal fistulae. But the operations for these conditions due to shortages in trained specialists may take months to organise. If a patient needs say a CT in Mulago which they have to fund because it is not a part of the NRM's "free healthcare", they or their relatives have to go back to the village and fundraise or sell a cow while the patient is occupying a bed!

The NRM claims to have built new health centres. MoH reports show that many of these health centres are non functional, that staffing levels are only 34% and that they do not have drugs. The benefits in building these facilities went only to the people who got contracts to build them with substandard materials at inflated price (there is evidence for this), as well as those who signed the contracts for a kickback but not the community.

I have previously on FB challenged every NRM supporter who quoted the NRM's official line on having built new hospitals to give me the names of those hospitals. All have dissappeared and not returned. I have also challenged them to visit a ward, any ward in Mulago and speak to real patients then come back and report their findings. None has ever come back. This challenge has been here for months.

I would like to challenge you now that you have taken up researching what I write seriously to go to Ugandan Cancer Institute and just speak to patients on the wards. One day, one visit will give you a very clear picture of what a real Ugandan patient goes through and trust me it is not reflected in the NRM's fancy manifesto or the fancy figures in President Museveni's speeches. You will realise that Museveni and all your official spokespersons havent the slightest clue what they are really talking about when they regurgitate those figure! 

You guys capitalise on Ugandans ignorance for if elections were really based on issues, there is no way you would be in government!

Uganda's population has gone up almost 4 times since 1980 and ten times since independence. Most if not all of Uganda's hospital except Rusherwe which of course is near Rwakitura and was started at Museveni's insistence, were built in the 60′s and earlier. Essentially while the population has gone up several times, the number of beds has shrunk as has the number of beds per capita but the efficiency has gone down too due to the longer length of stay resulting from the diagnostic, management and discharge bottlenecks.

I wrote the note below in 2006 in response to an annoying Ugandan Kony supporter. The langage I used of course was appropriate for him so I will not edit it. It discusses similar issues.

******************************************************************** 

To Mr holding my nose! 

authored by Ddembe on 19. January 2006 at 06:22 

Mulindwa says, " Think about it my fellow Ugandan, and you know I refused to respond to your comments due to your very un acceptable language in a public forum but this time I will hold my nose and respond to you for you are misleading the populace.."

Lets get a few things straight!

1. Your language is patronising, rude and unnacceptable. It is for this reason that I do not waste my time debating anything with you! If you care to do so you can roll back here and see your first response to my first very polite question to you!

2. Your posts are full of junk much of which is innaccurate! You indulge in circular logic and long winded posts in an effort to fatigue other discussants while losing the point of the discussion! You indulge in a flight of ideas and jump from one topic to another which makes a discussion with you pointless!

3. You did not refuse to respond to my questions! You attempted to respond to my questions but failed because you did not know the answers so lets not delude ourselves! You failed to stick to the point of the questions and meandered all over the place!

4. You indulge in made up "facts" and drop pseudofacts and technical jargon in an effort to impress and confuse the gullible! Unfortunately it not so impressive! You mix a few facts, string them together with a few misinterpretations and come up with erroneous opinions that lack objectivity that you peddle as fact -that you do not wish to be questioned!!

As for the rest of your post, I believe I made more than one point! When you stop holding your nose and address them, then we can have a "discussion"!

If you know the 22 hospitals list them -Miria Kalule Obote your preferred presidential hopefull does not! Better still let her know about them so that she does not embarrass herself again in future!

I cannot say that Uganda's hospitals are good and upto the required standard! I cannot however say that they were any better during Obote II -because I know for a fact that they were not!! You may if you wish comment on the 1960′s -I was not there but I can comment on the 80′s -I was there! In many ways while the blame for the slow recovery needs to be placed squarely at Museveni's governments root, we are still recovering from the rot of Obote and his henchman Amin's misrule!

A Ugandan doctor or other health practitioner is paid crap now in Museveni's government! But in Obote's government they were paid even more crap with even less purchasing power moreover several months in arrears!! And they were not facilitated any better than they are now!

My understanding of healthcare is more sophisticated than your simplistic "number of hospitals"!

By clinical health indicators, Uganda's population particularly Buganda's was more healthy in the 1950′s than it is now with more hospitals! There was better prevention, better health education, better grassroots involvement and better primary care!

In contrast we now have poor prevention with more overloading at the top in the tertiary hospitals of cases that should never have got to hospital in the first place!! That my friend is a sign of a failed healthcare system!

If and whenever your friend Miria wins an election which is not in this life, I can bet that those hospitals you wish them to build will never be built!

For one Uganda is a sovereign nation in name alone! Donors determine what gets built and what does not! Medicine underwent a paradigm shift in the 80′s with a greater emphasis on downsizing hospitals, upgrading systems and transferring the emphasis to the community! You will find that this is the case even in Cananda if you check out your very own Canadian Institute of Health Information (CIHI)!

Coincident with the NRA governments rule, our supervisors in WHO, IMF and the World Bank decided that we needed to move from building larger amd more hospitals to laying more emphasis on primary healthcare and public health! A healthcare restructuring exercise was then embarked upon with the goal of a district hospital in every district, as well as a healthcare centre with a medical officer in every county! A major health centre restructuring and upgrading project was embarked upon in Museveni's 80′s and 90′s to achieve the very same goal you claim was Obote's governments goal with some new units being built, others expanded or upgraded with theatres and investigative facilities!! My problems with Uganda's healthcare facilities have less to do with numbers of healthcare facilities and more to do with the appropriately skilled and motivated manpower to run those facilities which problem Obote's insecurity, lack of consumables and inflated shilling would not have fixed!

Funding for specialist medical training shifted from the traditional specialties to public health while local specialist training was scrapped from the governments "burden"! Specialists in training have since the mid 1990′s had to pay for their own training while being forced to resign their jobs and work for Mulago as unpaid supernumeraries with full workload and oncall -essentially unpaid doctors for a minimum of four years! This after a minimum of 3 years in a peripheral/rural hospital! This is the root of the recent Senior house Officer strike (Attending Residents in your Canada) in Mulago where they downed their tools until the government agrees to pay them 400,000 "allowance!

Other options like freezing recruitment of doctors in a country with a shortage, capping recruitment, deliberately downgrading the training and training are strategies that have documentation in International NGO fora! Keep them barefoot and hungry (and preganant) is a strategy that works as well for the village woman as for the third world doctor! the wife becomes the husbands slave while the doctor becomes the governments slave to provide "free" health care -except if those same doctors happen to be your brightest students from an old medical school with a good record of passing exams in other countres and a curriculum that is modelled on that of the external world!!

Most if not all scholarships from western governments in the same time for medical training abroad are for public health or related fields! 

Bottomline is that the current model like the various economic experiments the World Bank and IMF have had in Africa is a prescribed model -as was the previous model of building large undersubscribed (check Iganga and I believe it is Rukungiri hospitals with more beds than patients!)! So too is the Cost shifting to the private sector to encourage the private sector to take on more of the public hospital burden! The same general principles are the current shift in much of the western world!!

Whenever UPC comes into power (God forbid) there will be a bright new pHD at the Worldbank with a new prescription for our health system and believe me it will not be the one you or the UPC promote unless Miria has the money in her Obote foundation through which she controls her late husbands party!

As for the good and bad in each government, I do not expect anyone in the camps to feel well disposed towards Museveni -I would not if I lived in a camp while the rest of the country was moving on! By the same token do not expect me to say anything good about Obote's government -particularly as there is little good to say about it anyway!! My enduring view of Obote's government is wanton violence and lawlessness, runaway inflation and shortages, gunshots and terrorism by the state and state agents, fear and death daily!

I have no doubt that Obote's election was rigged and while I do not see how Museveni who lost an election miserably could have been the most qualified person to go to the bush save for his own personal aspirations, the subsequent behaviour of Obote's goons convinced me then and now that they needed to go -permanently! So my friend it does not matter who started the fire, I will continue to blame he who stoked that fire which decimated my childhood!

As for idiots, any person who denies and abuses his origins surely is befitting of the name -n'est ce pas? You must be breathless by now after holding your nose for so long! May it drop off!

  
Filed under: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/nina/) Tagged: [Health](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/health/), [Hospitals](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/hospitals/), [Letter to Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/letter-to-nina/)
