## Banange what has Nagenda been drinking?

Sunday, September 4, 2011 at 10:18pm


My dearest Nina,

It has been a while since I last wrote you two letters in one day but events are moving so fast, I couldn't contain my love for you today!

I really need to share my excitement! You see as I have told you before I am well and truly a seer! And none other than [old man Nagenda] has crowned me one! 

You see I grew up reading Nagenda's column! Whenever my dad came home the first thing I got off him was all of the days papers!

For a while now I have been wondering what happened to the word smith I grew up reading. in his place was this sycophant writing inane things in support of every whim of the man in the hat however off the hook it maybe! A hired hack, he descended to the depths and could not be distinguished from the 'dregs of society'! It is ironical that he chose this phrase to describe good Ugandans who disagreed with his bosses ongoing abuse of Ugandans and their goodwill!

Interestingly old man Nagenda is now speaking like a rat and a cockroach! His language in his recent interview in the monitor suggests that he has spent too much time with dregs of society! He actually sounds like he was criticising the man in the hat! Is that allowed? I thought all vision came from the man in the hat and all are just supposed to follow suit! Isnt that the meaning of autocratic?

I wonder what the cause of Nagenda's epiphany could have been! Is it perchance his age catching up? Or is it that he has realised he is not really adding any value and no really cares about his ramblings anymore? Is this a crisis of conscience or an attemt at getting some relevance back?

I noticed that he used his five minutes of fame to criticise everyone! I loved the one about that mukiga Otafiire! When is that one going to go back to his ducks and goats! After mismanaging the Ministry for Environment, he was posted to the ministry of Justice! The man in the hat really holds Ugandans in contempt! How could he appoint a man who has previously made it clear he despises the law and the judiciary to head the Ministry of Justice?

He even threw a jab at daddy dear! Mbu daddy dear 'sees his job as doing what the old man in the hat wants'!!! Now that is below the belt too! I could think of a few choice words to translate this but I will hold my tongue! I may have to sleep on the couch, he he he!!! Mbu no one can stand up to the man in the hat! I wish that Nagenda was telling us something we do not already know!

I wonder why Nagenda has decided to come out now! Could he be doing the man in the hats bidding once again? If the man in the hat has chosen this way to signal his retirement to his goats and ducks, then it is an interesting way! But surely he is not going to run away now like that George Bush and leave his mess to be cleaned up by someone else!

He he, I was most amused by that jab aimed at Tamale Mirundi! everyone knows the guy is a dunce but did he have to say so out loud? Now the man who brought us 'bolo kontulo' is going to be mouthing off for weeks! I wonder why Museveni surrounds himselef with these unmuzzled attack dogs! In the past it used to be one Kakooza Mutaale! Nagenda as good as said that Tamale is an idiot!!! And the tone with which he said that suggests that that would be an insult to idiots!!! Banange! The man does not have a kakumunta!!! Me at least when I insult a man I kubika bika ko!

Nagenda confirms one thing that the whole country knows -that the man in the hat listens to no one! And I really do believe him! If you do not wait and see who comes out to resolve mabira, Makerere, the dispute with teachers, who will contradict the KCCA Executive director on the expulsion of hawkers from the city! Anyone could tell you that this management style is old hat and innefficient!

What do the minsters do? What exactly is the role of the NRM caucus except to act as a rubber stamp to the whims of the man in the hat? Will they grow some spine this time? Will we hear someone initiate a bill to bring term limits back? I notice that Nagenda stayed away from that one! What does he know that we do not?

Naye banange let me ask! Nagenda says that he 'put himself' on katebe! I interprete that to mean that he withdrew his services dsite not having resigned yet still drawing a salary and using government perks. Is that not a form of corruption? For him to be drawing government emoluments while not delivering a service? Nevermind for the last few years he has not really been doing his job of "advising' as he had no access to his boss and no one listened to him! Honourable men in this situation would resign their positions and throw their hat in! Is Nagenda a homourable man?

But seriously, I would really like to know what illegal substance Nagenda has been imbibing so I could get some for myself! I swear I may even give up being a teetotaller who imbibes no intoxicant!

I am going to get me a ringside seat and watch the catfight betwen Nagenda and Tamale Mirundi! This is bound to get interesting!

I told you before the rats are deserting the ship! http://ddembe.wordpress.com/2011/06/20/letter-to-nina-when-rats-start-to-desert-a-sinking-ship/ Anyone in the know knows what that means -Museveni's ship is sinking!

And Nagenda is just another rat getting out while he can!

  
Filed under: [Uganda](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/uganda/)

[old man Nagenda]: http://www.monitor.co.ug/Magazines/ThoughtIdeas+/-/689844/1229632/-/item/3/-/6lgfas/-/index.html
