## Impatient young men ... are tempted to turn to revolt because no notice is taken of their questions.

Sunday, May 22, 2011 at 2:56am


Dear Nina,  
   
Am glad you have not kept me waiting. Now i know that you are really ready to return the love. Today I remembered this letter I wrote you when you were really playing hard to get. I wondered who Nina really was or wanted to be. It was returned "return to sender". https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150116462577681 .  
   
In that letter I wondered whether you were really just going to cruise along on family credentials or whether you were going to really put yourself out there. I think we are now well on to the way to finding out whether you will continue to play it safe or whether you are going to step out of the comfort zone of being a princess of the ruling elite. Of course I will not mention the one where you tried to give a dressing down for being so forward!!!  
   
But now you are talking to me so we must move this forward. I hope you are aware that there is an immense amount of interest out there in this exchange between you and me. Its not just DWR and ST who want to get in on the conversation. Am getting friendship requests every day at a very high rate. I say, the more the merrier. What say you.  
   
Of course we are on the same side in so far as you profess an interest in Ugandans and their interest and not the interests of daddy, party and president. For while I accept the fact that you are a loyal daughter, this course you have embarked upon goes far beyond your personal loyalties.  
   
You are aware that I am not a politician, have no interest in politics and for the most part despise politics and politicians. That of course sounds like a paradox given that many of my opinions are about politics. That however is primarily because my primary interest is services and the delivery of services to the people. Museveni in 1986 stated that politics is about the delivery of services to the people. Judged purely on the basis of the provision of services to Ugandans, it can be comfortably said that Museveni and the NRM are failures. Here I refer to basic things like roads, health, community policing and justice, housing, transport, schools. By that criterion as well as the management of corruption, in my opinion one would have to ask whether Ugandans are morons for voting NRM again after two and half decades of abuse.  
   
Yesterday I picked up a new word, "Oprahfication". It is apparently an affliction of the upper middle classes and elite who have apparently become accustomed to letting it all hang out on Oprah. They treat her show as a confessional and she has taken on the role of a confessor, a pseudoconsellor handing out banal absolutions that allow the rich to let go of their own responsibility and blame someone else. So there is always someone else to blame. Never the individual. So over the years I have formed an opinion of many of Oprahs clients -if they are successful its in spite of their parents, while if they are failures its because of their parents! It seems to me that you are one of those oprah fans. Female, priviledged, MTV generation, westernised. Am sure you have watched your share of oprah.  
   
But in this case I have got to agree with you. In this case as Museveni's children, we can blame our father for ruining our lives. While he was running around playing guerillas with uncle Obote and Amin, tearing up the countryside because of disagreements with Uncle Obote that quite frankly we as children did not give a damn about, while conscripting some of us into his army and teaching us to kill before we could drink a beer or chase after a woman, let alone wipe our bottoms properly, our childhood was ruined. I find it interesting therefore that we are supposed to be greatful almost three decades later to the man who ruined our childhood. I believe this calls for an Oprah moment. Get up there, lay it all out, tell daddy we hate him for ruining our lives and walking off the set freed of our childhood demons. Unfortuantely he doesnt wish to go. Not only do we have to carry the scars of an abusive parent, but he insists on staying in our lives and even demands the right to mess up that of our children. But we must protect our children from him, else they too will acccuse us of ruining their lives.  
   
We Museveni children did not graduate into political beings. We never ever had a choice. Politics was forced upon us. Its why we spent most of our adolescence and early adulthood ignoring everything to do with politics and playing catch up to compensate for a lost childhood. We are political beings from when we were little. We know the difference between good and bad governments. In a bad government, your good law abiding tax paying parents live in fear. Fear of death and torture from the government and its agents. The same government that takes your taxes. think about this -at the age of ten or eleven, I went to and from school in Nakasero through 16 roadblocks every day.  
   
In 25 years you learn a lot about a man. You learn his strengths and his weaknesses. We grew up on the sound of bullets. We listened to news and birango everyday. People were afraid that if they missed the birango, they would miss the death of a relative from a sudden encounter with armed men. We therefore know a lot about Museveni and his men. And we now know that their so called revolution was all about young men whose elders would not listen to them wrestling the 'animal' from their elders with us paying the price for their foolishness. Now they are old men, they wish to prevent other young men impatient with them, from doing the same thing that they did to their own elders! So now we know that the band of 27 is no different from those they deposed.at the end of the day, they view the people they lead as a means to an end. Their word means nothing and is not binding upon their actions. Its this very fact that you attempt to hide behind the excuse of hindsight. We too do have the benefit of hindsight and this hindsight tells us that the emperor is naked.  
   
Museveni and his band of rebels were not the first Ugandans to rebel against their elders. And neither was the generation of the Obote's before them. Before that there were Baganda nationalists who rebelled against the colonial government and in many ways set the stage for the Ugandan nationalist struggles that followed. There were also other earlier struggles like the Bataka rebellion. The Walk2Work organisers probably believe that they pioneered unarmed resistance or rebellion in Uganda. Bu as you point out Uganda did not have a history of armed war for independence. ths does not mean that there were no struggles. The tools and weapons used then are no different from those used today. What you call lies were called "subversive rumours" and "radical rudeness" used by Ganda activists to disrupt social relationships between colonial government and local elites.  
   
I find most interesting this paper regarding the activities of Ganda radicals in the 1940′s that clearly demonstrate an orchestrated campaign of unarmed activism. This paper talks about the ruling elite of that time and their attitude towards the demands of young men. Quote, "As ministers, Nsibirwa, Kulubya and Kawalya Kaggwa showed little interest in modifying their rule to make room for young men's demands for public participation, democracy and change. They saw such innovations as disorderly, disruptive, and fundamentally inappropriate. As prime minister, Kawalya Kaggwa dismissed the radicals by calling them lazy, and saying "What have they done ... so far? Have they improved their country in any way? Have they cultivated and kept good farms? No!!". Kawalya Kagwa lacked understanding of young men's discontent, to the point that the former missionary HM Grace chided him for his rigor, arguing in the aftermath of the 1945 strike, "impatient young men ... are tempted to turn to revolt because no notice is taken of their questions. And a few become revolutionaries such as those you have in prison now.... Now you can't repress this movement--it will grow even more as your soldiers return, and the more who are educated the more this movement will grow. This urge for some voice in government comes from reading the history book, the overseas press, protestant theology, and even the Bible. This young Africa is an explosive force and though the numbers may be small, it will have growing power and it all depends how it is treated now whether it becomes a curse or a blessing. I beg you and the other chiefs will deal wisely with it...." Kawalya Kagwa rejected such recommendations, perhaps provoked by the regular abusive telegrams he received from Mulumba and other Bataka party members. The radicals had more success with British officials and missionaries than they did with the leaders of the kingdom's government."  
   
I would recommend that you read the paper as clearly demonstrates that as the young men of the 40′s rebelled against the Buganda kingdom officials and the colonial government and those of the 50′s rebelled against the colonial government leading to independence, those of the 80′s rebelled agains Obote and wrestled him for power at great cost to all of us, its now the turn of Museveni and the NRM. The young men are circling him. He may shoot them and kill them but ultimately he will lose.  
   
I first got introduced to debate when I was about ten or eleven. I relished in debating any side and any point and demolishing my opponents. In high school I lost interest until a teacher, a Kenyan introduced political debate as an extacurricular activity. How he fired up the boys! He was such an orator. He so fired up the boys that they rebelled against the school food. The brothers were so incensed they invited a platoon of soldiers who were camped close by. That was the first time we were exposed to indiscipline by an NRM soldier. One of the older boys in A level was singled out for rough treatment and canes by one soldier who apparently had some sort of vendetta against his parents. We were all quite apalled. This was within a few months of takeover by the NRM. All the fancy words of discipline among their troops suddenly felt empty. The Kenyan teacher was blamed by the brothers for the strike and disappeared. He reappeared a few weeks later in full military uniform and it turned out he was an NRM political Commissar. The story was that he was a Kenyan dissident who had been involved in an attempted coup against Moi. The Kenyan government apparently expressed their dissatisfaction with his presence ad he ended up in Sweden as a refugee.  
   
My debate was informal and consisted of mainly baiting savdees. You see in those days I could quote the bible backwards and confuse most savdees. You see i had little interest in politics and preferred other pursuits.  
   
You feign ignorance of the power of the president. You also misquote me when you say I said the "only way" ... Actually I said that one of the things we need to do towards curbing the powers of the presidency is term limits. There are other things that need to be discussed -separation of powers, independent institutions and checks and balances on the powers of the presidency. Today the presdient can misuse the powers of the state to persecute a political opponent without censorship. In a true democracy, he should have resigned after the Besigye rape trial or the recent police and army riots causing loss of life. To begin with term limits would curb the ability of the presdent to use his incumbency and state funds to subborn the process of democracy. You see democracy as you said is not delivered by elections particularly flawed ones. In Uganda we have a president who acts like a village chief. He is everywhere and into everything. He settles disputes between boda bodas and market vendors, receives small time conmen from Mumbai posing as investors, gives away government land, meets small fictitious kings like the Sabanyala, creates small non viable districts and constitutencies, settles pay disputes with Makerere lecturers or disputes for allowances with Makerere students etc. In doing all of this he undermines everyone including his own ministers. He takes over the role of the technocrats and as such has had a few scandals coming back to him like AGOA, the Aya brothers land giveaway or the Shimoni land giveaway or the various taxpayer funded rescues from bankruptcy for Basajjabalaba. He has taken us into more than one war without involving our legislators or having any form of national debate about whether we wanted to die in foreign wars.  
   
But most disturbing of all is that there is virtually no curb on what he can and cannot do. There appears to be no mechanism for relieving him of office even if he maybe destructive. His persecution of Besigye for example using state resources is less than what lost Mbeki his presidency for using the state prosecutors to hound Zuma. Its even less than the ills that saw the prime minster of Australia kicked out of power. Neither the legislature nor the party appear to have any power or mechanisms for controlling the power of the presidency or for dealing with an incompetent president. He has undermined virtually every institution and usurped their powers. Institutions like the legislature, and the judiciary have all been turned into client structures without discernible independence from the presidency. If the presiend fights with the Kabaka, he instructs parliament to provide him with a Kabaka muzzling bill -for a fee! If the new enemy is walk to work activists, again parliament obliges him with another law. if he wishes to rule till he drops dead, for 2000 dollars (how cheap), parliament again tampers with the constitution. Now he wishes to extend term durations so he doesnt have to go back to the electorate for fresh mandate -no taking chances on a fickle public controlled by the dregs of society so parliament will be happy am sure for a fee to provide him with one!    
   
You have issues with what you call insulting members of parliament. I do not insult them. To call a corrupt fool a corrupt fool is not to insult them and neither is pointing out the fact that both the seventh as well as the eight parliament were traitors to this country. Both parliaments took bribes from the executive in exchange for their vote on bills introduced by the presidency for the bnefit of the incumbent. For those crimes history shall judge them harshly. But so will the ninth parliament if they extend the term durations for the benfit of the incumbent or fail to return term limits back into the constitution. They will also be judged harshly if they bend to Museveni's will and interfere with the constitution to take away the right to bail and the presumption of innocence as well as the right to  afair trial. These are things that they need to know. We need to set the bar for our legislators higher, demand more from them and make it clear to them that they are elected to serve the interests of the people and not those of the ruling party of the incumbent. In Uganda we set the bar for MP's and politicians so low that people believe all they need to do is say they are 'honourable' and we are supposed to believe they are honourable. They dont actually have to act with honour or even serve our interests except to come back every five years to buy us some waragi in exchange for a vote. And tribalism demands that we bask in their glory even when we benefit nothing from it. Did you notice the Basoga jubilating because Kadaga was the speaker? Seriously, could you go to Busoga and see the jiggers and poeverty and still take pride in electing this government? As my grandmother would say, "eyalooga bano yali tanaaba"!!!  
   
Tamale Mirundi is a fool. I think you give him too much credit. I have heard things more nasty than me calling him a fool said about him by the people you suggest he speaks for. The last time I checked, Tamale Mirundi is the simpleton that you NRM elite use to say the stupid things you cannot say yourself. Its a bit like hiring the village drunkard and buying him a few so that he can insult your rival. he does not speak for the "dregs" of scoiety who you admit are the majority. He is actually a hired gun who speaks for the ruling minority elite just like Nagenda even though he sounds more coarse and crude. today i read Kabushenga's interview with BBC in which he preapeats the very same lies that form the official government narrative. Mbu the videos of Besigye's arrest were edited. One wonders what the chances of a conspiracy involving all of the journalsist from various services could be. And where is the missing footage anyway?  
   
In looking up the NRM and Museveni's innauguration speech, I came across events in South africa from the same time. It occured to me then that it was impossible to get something from someone who does not want to give it to you if you are playing on his field using his own rules. In Uganda, the NRM owns the field grace to the virtual carte blanche our parents gave them. They had twenty years in which they suppressed other political party's activity while they used state resources to consolidate their hold on power. USing state resources they built the LC system and other grassroot structures which became an extension of the NRMO. This grasroot system has access to every villager. To get any formal papers such as a passport one needs an introduction from the LC's. In the absence of a formal address, its the LC's that vouch for ones identity. These structures are stamped NRM and controlled by the NRM. It is therefore misleading to try and claim they are not grassroot NRM structures. We saw how they were manipulated finacially just before the last election. We do know however that the NRM was dissolved so these NRM structures should have been dissolved too. But hey still ecist even though all of them are as corrupt as the NRM government.  
   
The preindependence politics was not the problem. The problem was politicians who refused to play by the rules that brought them to power and sought to change and rewrite the rules and change the venue to one they control. Thats exactly the same politcs that Museveni and the NRM plays. But it wishes to be lauded for playing fair when we all know there is no fairness to this game nor the venue. the opposition in Uganda is there only to legitimise the NRM -exactly the same role that Museveni accused DP of serving. They are supposed to be good and play nice even when they are being hamstrung. To go back to my question regarding how to get something from someone determined not to give it to you at all cost, the ANC would never have won power by fighting the aprtheid government on its terms. To succeed they had to change the rules, chose their own weapons. Thats the brilliance behind walk to work. It doesnt matter how many tanks and guns you have, you will still lose. Walking is a simple everyday affair for many people. It is natural and an inalienable right. You cannot stop people from walking without making yourself look like a fool. Many governments spend millions of dollars to enourage their people to walk. But walk to work is only one of many strategies  
   
Ugandans do not connect their rights directly with the provision of services. If they did, why would they vote for Museveni and the NRM after 25 years? Museveni indulged in a subterfuge during the last election. Everywhere he went, he displaced responsibility from himself and the government onto anyone else he could grab. Who in Uganda would dare to contradict the president in public? Health centre has no drugs, blame the doctors. Kampala has potholes, not his governments fault. IDP's suffering and dying in neglect, blame Kony even though Kony was not in charge of the IDP's. IDP camps were established by the NRM which displaced paesants from their land. It therefore had a duty of care for the residents of those camps. The well documented excess mortality in those camps for more than a ecade has got to be placed directly at the foot of the NRM government. The social costs of those camps cannot be blamed on anyone else too. In any other society, the residents of those camps should have been suing this government for opportunities lost and for lives lost as the government failed in its duty of care.  
   
What the last 25 years under Museveni and the NRM represent are opportunities lost. Instead of building for the future we have spent most of our time entrenching one  man and his family into our politics. Instead of fighting corruption even with all of the goodwill this government has had, it has instead entrenched it. Instead of fighting nepotism and tribalism, it has become a way of life. Instead of fighting impunity, it has been promoted to an art. Instead of promoting security, it has now built a police state. Instead of revamping our infrastructure, we boast the 'best' potholes in the world! And instead of at last having the chance of handing over power peacefully, we are risking another war because another set of old men do not recognise when their time has come to go!  
   
I am who and what i am because of what my parents did for me not because of who they are. While I never really valued school while I was there, and took it for granted, I still knew it was the best school in the country. In many ways my failures are mine while my successes are the successes of my parents.  I would never go as far as saying that the first half of my life was ruined by my parents. And if there is anything good in the second half of my life its because of my parents. When I was a teenager, I resented the control that my mother had over every minute of my life. In retrospect, it occurs to me that controlling the movements of their children was the best way of keeping them safe in a country where death was always close by. Sometimes i wonder how we ever even became normal adults and for that I can say thanks to my parents. So no my parents didnt ruin the first half of my life and neither did they ruin the second.  
   
You make the mistake of settling for second best -setting the bar too low. Me i still want that ferrari, children or no. Today a perfect stranger looked at my car and said single mans car. No its not a single mans car. Its my car. children or no children. Yes they have or will have great education, the best that my money can buy. They certainly aren't going anywhere near Museveni's bonna basruwale schools. They will become their own person and make their own choices -and move out of my home. And I will go off fishing or buy a rocking chair when the time is right. I will not keep them beholden to me because I believe they owe me. You see thats what a parent who loves their children does. He or she allows them to grow up and make their own decisions and respects those decisions but does not seek to continue controlling them well into their adulthood. Such a parent would be called a controlling parent. In mny ways Museveni is controlling. With an ego and a degree of narcisism to match, his ego will not allow him to step off the treadmill he has set himself upon. Museveni is a narcissist. Narcissists thrive on power and control. Thats why he cannot contemplate retirement. To a man like him retirement is like death.  
   
I know that most Ugandans do not wish for a ferrari. I also know that for many, the simpler things in life would be enough. But we are not talking bout luxuries here. We are talking about basic things. Not to be killed by the state that is meant to protect you. Not to be harrassed by the police that are supposed to be your friends. Not to die from preventable diseases because the government has misplaced its priorities and prefers to buy ultramodern fighter jets instead. Not to die from hunger in a country gifted by nature. Not to have a miscarriage due to Museveni's terrible roads. Not to have your house flooded because the government cannot maintain simple things like storm drains and urban planning. Not to die an early death due to simple treatable diseases. Not to have my car damaged on top of all of the taxes i have already paid. Not to have to put up with corruption by the people who are meant to pevent it. To live under an accountable government. All of thse are simple things. They do not require a genius. Neither are they rocket science. Its called provision of services -the core business of government according to Museveni in 1986. Do you want to tell me that with hindsight Museveni and the NRM do not find any of these things reasonable any longer? That their foresight was based on naivety? Why then do they not tell the people to stop aspiring for these simple things?  
   
When you put rats in a jar and starve them, they will start to eat each other. Thats the story of the NRM primaries. Politics is the best paying job in this country. And you dont even have to have any specific qualifications or job experience. If you are gifted with the gab and have little scrupples, then you will have a job in politics. and you dont even have to turn up for debates, dont have to read the bills, dont even have to make your maiden speech. You get to be called honourable, have a choice of maidens, get a taxpayer funded car and a salary that professionals with decades of training and decades of experience can only dream about, get to gate crash every funeral on the village as well as every wedding whle getting applauded regardless of whether what you say makes sense or not! The NRM has created a system pf patronage where all of the resources in this country are hoarded by the state and used to maintain the incumbent in power! Do the rural folk really fight for their rights or do they fight for individual politicians? As I stated in my last letter, true autonomy implies that the person making that choice is well informed. The NRM deliberately keeps its people uninformed of their rights. Many even believe that the government is only doing them a favour when it delivers a service.    
   
LOL at predefined rules. there are no predefined rules here. There are rules that the people tried to set up in 1995 that the NRM and Museveni have since demonstrated mean nothing to them. Museveni makes the rules to suit himself but expects everyone esle to play by those same rules. No reasonable person expects to play a game on anothers turf using anothers rules and hope to win unless they are deluded. the rules that Ugandans agreed upon have been tampered with or are not enforced. The only way to win or have a fighting chance is to change the rules. who says that Museveni's rules have got to be the rules by whic the game is played anyway? So welcome to the new world where Museveni and the NRM do not set the rules. Actually they themselves are playing catchup. Interestingly the opposition itself are not the originators of thiese rules. Others not even interestsed in politcs have been setting the rules. In Egypt when the Jasmine train docked, El Baradei was pushed aside. He had assumed that when the people overthrew Mubarak, they would automatically look to him. You are aware that Marchiavelli states that people wilfully change their rulers if those rulers show themselves to be unjust.  
   
If the evidence of the last few weeks counts, lying is very much a preserve of the NRM and its cadres. We have seen the president telling lies about the so called riots -events that were captured on camera. We have seen a minster present the same lies in parliament -accompanied by a doctored video. We have seen Kabushenga present those lies to the BBC. Nabakooba and Opolot as well as Kayihura have outdone themselves. Talk about uncoordinated troop movements!  
   
The referendum in 2005 was a sham because the question had already been decided in parliament by a compromised parliaement. It now goes down in the annals as a failed experiment in trusting our leaders to self regulate. Its why I would not trust Besigye or any of the others to regulate themselves in a system where the winner takes all, the opposition is toothless, and the government is allowed to use public resources to maintain an individual in power.  
   
As for what am doing about reimposing term limits, we are talking about them arent we? He who can change thoughts has the power to change history. You would be very surprised how many people are following this debate.    
   
There is a fable that Ugandans have been told for many years. Its the story of economic growth. The way this story is told, economic growth is everything and tells the whole story. But something keeps bothering me. Why if the economy is growing steadily, are people complaining of extreme poverty? Is economic growth as quoted enough t maintain stability? How much of our economic growth is true growth and how much is just simple 'recovery economics'? You see post conflict countries have very little trouble achieving a growth rate of 10%. Democracy and elections in particular in africa do not guarantee stability. Economic growth matters to conflict probably through its effect on employment. Unemployment particularly of young men increases the risk of further war. Collier, Hoffler and Rohner in 2007 demnstrated that if the proportion of young men in a society with thrid world characteristics is doubled, the risk of conflict goes up from 4.1% to 30%. In another paper by Collier and Hoeffler in 2007, they found that increased military spending by a thrid world post conflict nation rather than decrease the risk of conflict actually significantly increases the risk of conflict. The most obvious infrastructure needs in a post conflict economy are power, ports and roads. The offer the best returns on post conflict development. Without reliable power, the formal sector cannot develop. Uganda is cited as a country where the biggest impendiment to investment was power. The failure to plan for power is a major policy failure. I have always wondered how Museveni hoped to drive his so called industrialisation and investment without relaible power.  
   
Technically Uganda shouldnt be a post conflict country 25 years after the takeover of the NRM. Nevertheless we reamin a fragile country. In many ways our economic recovery has been mismanaged with over reliance on the raw figures of economic growth without telling Ugandans that in recovery economics, it is not unusual for post conflict economies to maintain a 10% or higher growth rate. Unemployment and the distribution of wealth as well as the large population of young men are factors likely to increase conflict. Increased government spending on military hardware is a factor that has been shown to increase the risk of conflict too. The ability to attract skilled manpower back is also useful in speeding up recovery. In Uganda's case, we are more efficient at haemorrhaging skilled manpower!You stated that you believe that we are not at risk of war -I would say you are wrong. everything suggests that we are. The gap between the haves and the have nots, the impunity and corruption, the nepotism and cronism are features we share with all of the noth African countrie recently visited by the jasmine train. An oppressive and abusive government is a very effcient catalyst for conflict and a recruiting agent for the enemy.  
   
_**Impatient young men ... are tempted to turn to revolt because no notice is taken of their questions.**_
