## [We all have big mouths! How comes only Banyankole get shut up with fat brown envelopes?](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?created&&note_id=10150214146797681)


Dear Nina,  
   

Today I have decided to breach a topic I normally stay away from. That of tribalism and nepotism practiced by the NRM government as well as the perceptions of Bahima and westerners that could cause major problems for us in future.  
   
I know that this topic is taboo and that there is even a law that makes it illegal to call a muhima a muhima or something to that effect. That the so called anti sectarian law was created to prevent people from discussing this topic! That it is sectarian to say that Bahima are eating and the rest of us get to watch them! But that mad man Nathan decided to let the genie out of the bottle now everyone is talking about it. And that it is the closest equivalent to a [tribal cyber stone throwing](https://www.facebook.com/muhiire.nathan/posts/214646701891792) that we could have on facebook!    
   
I also wish to complain because ever since I started writing on facebook and becoming a major pain in your governments backside, no one has approached me with a brown envelope while other people who happen to come from the right part of the country are all telling me they are receiving offers from as far up as the presidents office that include private audience with his excellence! Even that rat Twino got invited to eat things!!! Is it because he is from Kiruhuura and speaks she and I am not? I hear people have been calling him to say he should not discuss "family business" and that they will sort him out with a big brown envelope to keep his big mouth shut! Shia! Even me I have a big mouth! How comes no one is shutting me up with a fat brown envelope? Even corruption and bribery is tribalised in Museveni's Uganda!   
   
I have not peeped at Nathans Bahima board for two days and have never read it in full. It's going to be my next project. I did see a few quite primitive statements from both sides including some very typical bush Bahima. I will demonstrate what I mean by bush Bahima!     
   
I will be writing my views on Bahima my fathers family having employed them for generations as some members of my fathers family have more cows than many Bahima could ever dream of.     
   
My first meeting with a muhima/bahima was at the age of seven while on holiday on a relatives ranch in Luwero. I was amazed at this creature, obviously poor and ill mannered, who addressed his employer's wife who had just offered him free food as "omwiru ogu". He refused to dig up the food he was offered free at his request (cassava) as "ngu nti mwiru". He had claimed his family had nothing to eat! This was after he he had turned down free potatoes "ngu, narya ebitakuri, ng'omwiru?" Even more amazing to me was the fact that his boss offered him free alcohol and actually went down to the garden and dug up the food for him which he carried off at the end of the day. This simple woman had hundreds of cows in her own right!     
   
Over the course of that holiday, I came to meet many of these "bush bahima" and their arrogance. I still remember them till today and in many ways understand how the Bairu of Ankole feel about them from that interaction and many future ones. I even learnt runyankole which unfortunately I later forgot. Children are very fast learners.     
   
With the advent of the NRM, many bush bahima suddenly fell into things. I use the term bush bahima losely to refer to those ignorant ones like the ones I have referred to above who treat people even those who feed and employ them as dirt. They suddenly fell into things with many hillarious stories told about them which I shall not repeat. Some of those very funny characters have now evolved to become the movers of our society but unfortunately their manners have not -they brought them with them intact into national offices. If one wants to get a clear idea of their evolution, one just has to look at serial photos of Museveni's suits from the short sleeved kaunda suit over long sleeved shirts, watch on the right arm, and gum boots in 1986 to saville row suits today.    
   
I found out that they spat and "kunyampad" in public. The fought after getting drunk on their hosts free booze. And they were arrogant and abusive and looked down upon everyone including their boss! And the men and women squatted leaving very little to a vivid childhood imagination. Neither men nor women wore underwear! I also found out that they married their cousins, practiced a form of wife swapping and many were paedophiles and harrassed young girls who the wanted to "kusweera"!    
   
I did then and later when I was older ask my aunt about her interactions with the bahima. My uncle took me around to the kraals where they lived with his and my fathers cattle. Their homes were pathetic and in many cases lean to's with the children sleeping outside on a "katandaro" or in a small hut with their parents who I was assured by older teenage cousins had some fairly noisy sexual habits! I found that these bahima showed me how to milk a cow. They knew all of my fathers cows by name including which one was the mother or father of which one. They knew when they were sick. My uncle and aunt just laughed at what they called ignorance but maintained that some of these men and women were actually good men and women. Both of them spoke fluent runyankole.     
   
From my aunt and uncle i also found out that many of these people were good men and women. The women would come around for free food and chat with their boss. And they had the same problems athat other women had. They talked about family and children. That the men could be very good and generous friends with friendships lasting for decades. My uncle did say however that he could never trust them with his cows except to look after them for if he blinked, the cows would disappear.   
   
I learn the meaning of the word "nyabuzaare". The joke around as I found out later was that if you married a muhima woman and a vistor came who she referred to a nyabuzare, do not leave them together! For the sexual taboos that Baganda had towards blood relatives differed from those of Bahima so this nyabuzaare some of whom visit for months or longer maybe the reason yur children look like Bahima!    
   
Some girlfriends later taught me more about this nyabuzaare thing. One was amazed at Baganda. "Abaganda nze sibategyeera"! In her opinion, the way Baganda behaved could never happen among her people. She believed that a muhima could never discriminate against a fellow muhima and offer a job to another, regardless of merit. Actually she believed that in the matter of jobs, a nyabuzaare and tribesmate came first! That if a muhima headed a department, it was expected that he or she would offer jobs to all villagemates and relatives first. That it was impossible for them to head a department full of foreigners.     
   
I got to know one girl and her "bush family" very well. She was hima/ tutsi from the lukoola's of Buganda in Sembabule and very well connected to kuteesa, jet mwebaaze, Kazini, joviah, Kagame, Guma and Salim Saleh. Actually she introduced me to some of them' Through her i got to hear some interesting stories behind the street parking deal and the Entebbe enhas deal. I learnt to recognise these peoples private and public dealing with the spla and bashirs hostility. i heard about congo years before we fought there. and i knew stories from behind the lines in rwanda. I even met spla officers at a private function introduced to me at a day after museveni had publicly disavowed any connection between spla and uganda. i understood then that to many of these men the war in the north and southern sudan was simply business -they provided goods and protection. i met coltan dealers when most ugandans were unaware we exported coltan or even had it. and i learnt that there was indeed gold in karamoja and it just wasn't stories. In person many of these people were very nice and generous if they were your friends. at uni i knew three more girls, one of whom was very close to jim muhwezi while another was close to salim saleh. at one point salim gave this 20 year old girl 30 000 dollars to "keep" for him. those days this was a fortune!    
   
Over the years, i have seen and heard the stories of sudden wealth, arrogance, whole departments staffed by one tribe, lucrative postings  and jobs reserved for one tribe. i have seen reports and queries about ura and high ranking army officers. i have seen people who have risen from little more than herdsmen to significant wealth by any and all standards. I have seen young people, some relatives who will not bother to apply for jobs because its now accepted that you have got to come from one part of the country or have a nose of a certain length to qualify.     
   
But I have also been back to Luwero as well as Mbarara and realised that there are still many Bahima there who still leave much the same way that I first saw them as a child. I have had them beg me to buy milk off them in Luwero because it will go bad and they have to feed their children. I have realised that this kintu is just a gimmick. That even among Bahima, some are closer to the table than me without connections or with the background that enables me to go around this entrenched system of patronage!      
   
The average muganda is still better off in many respects than some of these people. That while there has been an unofficial affirmative program involving choice postings, lucrative positions and free money from supplying air in contracts known only to some as well as scholarships distributed under the presidents bed under very vague circumstances, this system of patronage does not benefit all westerners or even Bahima many of whom are still as poor and ignorant as ever despite the arrogance.     
   
I have a two brothers with Bahima girlfriends/wives and children and have never seen much evidence of things falling their way. The only time that one seemed to benefit from a large contract negotiated in lunyankole to what appeared to be a private business that its since become common knowledge was the beneficiary of billions in public and CHOGM money, he got ripped off and lost hundreds of millions! Having a muhima wife and child did not help him from becoming a victim of thieving and impunity!     
   
I have also learnt that Banyankole are not the same. That if you put Bahima and Bairu in the same country together and we all withdrew, they would massacre each other! That the only thing that prevents them from doing so is being part of greater Uganda!    
   
Travel allows one to meet all sorts of Ugandans in foreign capitals some of whom are frozen in time. I have learnt that there are Ugandans many of whom are from the past who would love nothing other than a good old fashioned massacre of anyone with a long nose or suspected to be a muhima or munyarwanda. The only problem is that many of these people would not recognise one if he or she fell on their head. To them every one with a nose of a certain length is an enemy and an eater. To them I would be a candidate for massacre and s would lots of Baganda, Banyoro or anyone from the west!     
   
I have also seen the emergence of a fortress mentality with many people from western Uganda believing that Museveni is their only bulwark and protection from getting massacred. The reality in my opinion is the opposite. That Museveni's continued stay in power will instead increase the chances of us having a good old massacre! That in propagating this cycle of tribal eating, he has increased the risk of resentment against his people. That the primitive accumulation of wealth and primitive consumption amidst poverty and deprivation is rapidly creating the conditions for a "correction".     
   
The problem with such corrections of real or perceived historical injustice is that they are often irrational and follow no logic. They are based on fear. Our history is full of such 'corrections. A granduncle of mine who was close to a nubian family was mistaken for a nubian. In 1979, he was driven to exile and his house destroyed. He was exiled in Juba and Kenya and his children scattered. He returned later a poor man despite his having previously been a very wealthy man. By the time of his death, he was a bit loopy!    
   
In Rwanda, men and women turned on each other with no logic. In Kenya a massacre came out of virtually no where. In Mabira, some Asians were killed in violence that came out of virtually no where. Someone who knew nothing about how Asians interact with native Ugandans would say that this came out of nowhere as did the expulsion in 1973. Reality is that both were on the back of long standing resentment and inequality.    
   
Uganda is hostage to vested interests of a small minority many of whom happen to be Bahima related to the first family. Ugandans particularly other Banyankole and Bahima need to recognise that they are captives to fear. But they also have to be aware that if they do not embrace change, they will be forced to accept the change that we all do not want. That they need to be seen to be standing up against the abuse of this government together with other Ugandans if they are to protect their own interests.   
   
Change will come but it needs to be a change we want. Change that involves further bloodshed of innocent Ugandans is not the cnahge that we want. I am yet to go through this discussion but I have heard from inboxes that it is a public stone throwing fest. This is not necessarily a bad thing as discussing a problem is half way to solving it. This resentment has been going on a long time and the arrogance of this government does not help.     
   
When asked to comment upon the composition of the so called national army particularly the high command, the army commanders invited before a comittee in parliament arrogantly refused and claimed it was a matter of national security! this is a rpime example of embedding sectarian interests and claiming them to be national interests. In another similar request involving URA, they dodged the question which referred to the name rank and tribe of its employees starting with the chief a muhima woman who takes home more than 10, 000 dollars a month. They submitted stats for drivers, askaris and sweepers! I may have exagerated there but the reality is they refused. A rumour in the past shed some light on how some of these units are staffed. The Special Revenue Police Service that Kayihura headed before it was disbanded for torture and murder was apparently vetted in person by Janet Museveni from so called "savedees" known to her or her son. He was not then a member of the armed forces! There have been other stories about her involvement in recruiting! Anyone who has grown up under Museveni has heard about or seen evidence of interesting recruiting practices in the URA! And anyone who has met Bahima kids on government scholarship in overseas capitals knows that there is more than meets the eye!     
   
A well connected muhima girl sent me a worried inbox message after Nathan put up his topic. She narrated some rather chilling episode her poor children went through during the so called Buganda riots that Museveni used to kill over thirty unarmed people. She believes that her children almost became victims but for her driver who drove away from an angry crowd at Bunamwaya. That her children were targeted because they have her long nose even though her husband is from another part of the country. She cites as evidence the fact that the same mob was in the process of overturning and burning down a MOVIT car owned by a mukiga. What she doesn't know is that I have a cousin who has worked at MOVIT for years and his employment practices are exploitative and primitive and its more than likely that the resentment had little to do with tribe and more about how he treats his employees. Evidence for this is that the MOVIT employees have since gone on strike that required riot police intervention. That too may just be evidence of impunity that prefers to use the police rather than communicate with ones employees. Nevertheless I feel pity for her and her children for having been put through this horrible expeirence.      
   
The reality is that Ugandans need to learn to share. That inequality will always lead to conflict and war. That if the rest of the country does not see evidence of equality, we are sitting on a ticking time bomb. That this has got to be taken very seriously by those in the kintu in particular westerners and Bahima. They will need to distinguish themselves from those who have turned this country into a personal fiefdom! When I get phone calls from relatives who believe that I can get them jobs because I "know these people" I feel sad! People seriously believe that without connections to the west or Bahima, its not possible to get a job in Uganda and everything this government is doing suggests so. The arrogance and twarire mentality buttressed by an arrogant president who proclaims in public that "he will only reward those areas of the country that support him" does not help at all in dispelling this true or false!     
   
The issue of tribalism, sectarianism and nepotism under the NRM needs to be brought out in the open. This is the only way that resentment and future problems can be prevented.     
   
But I know how this government will respond to Nathans topic. They are going to claim sectarianism and invoke their anti sectarian law which has always been used to witch hunt those who point out the governments sectarianism instead of punishing those guilty of sectarianism.     
   
Museveni employs his wife, his son, his daughter, his adopted daughter, his brothers and sister as well as various other relatives both his and Janets in government business in jobs we know they were never interviewed for. his military high command, embassies, lucrative posts and businesses doing business with government are filled with bahima out of proportion to their numbers or qualifications.    
   
If you doubt that a certain region has benefitted disproportionately from government patronage, it send your research team to count the number of cars with government plates heading for the village on a weekend along gulu road and that to Mbarara and report back here.     
   
And then tell us whether you think that Museveni is not sectarian.     
   
Another thing I have found out in interacting with people on FB is that those singled out for bribery to stop voicing their dissent are from Ankole! I have people who send me inboxes who have been active on FB. Interestingly only those from Ankole have been apporached with offers of lucrative positions and money to stop their activities against the government on facebook.      
   
The approaches have played on sentiments of Us versus them! If there is anything that has taught me how this government works its this. I too would have loved to see a big brown envelope come my way! Surely I have been more noisy than some of those others!!!     
   
I hope that at the end of the day, this Bahima discussion leads to an understanding that we are all being taken for a ride by the tribal and family interests of a very small clique but we shall all pay the price if good people both Bahima and non Bahima do not take a stand against the NRM government on tribalism and sectarianism!
 

[This letter can also be found on facebook](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?created&&note_id=10150214146797681)
