## Banange Mukula is really raining on Museveni's party!

Monday, September 5, 2011 at 8:29pm


Banange Nina dear,

Kale nga ekuba omunaku tekya! Now I know why your eyelid was twitching!! Its like all the Gods are lined up against Uncle Kaguta!

Can you imagine after that duo of psycophants Nagenda and Tamale came out with a slugfest in the media that promises to be even more entertaining over the next few days, Mukula now comes in with a wikileaks "leakage" to beat all leakages!!!

First was old man Nagenda mixing up his guiness with I do not know what! Whatever it is it must be illegal and am very sure that Uncle Kaguta will soon be tabling a bill to make it illegal just like he plans to ban the right to bail and a fair trial!!! Then came in Tamale -Mirundi to prove that the aspersions cast upon his intelligence by Nagenda were actually true! I am very sure there are a few people in government wishing the man had shut his trap and not showed us what was in his brain!! But Nagenda's ramblings did do us a public favour -they confirmed that the emperor is really naked! Not that we did not already know that! Everyone who does not need glasses has been able to see this for a while -and I do need glasses but even I have been able to see this!

You know after that man Kayihura tried to bring down the government by ordering his policement to go on riot, a lot of people have come out to talk! First were the Bakiga -Kanyeihamba and that man who runs the bank and has been giving our money to Basajjabalaba as well as releasing it for dodgy projects like buying votes Mutebile! You see Mutebile saw the pile of cards toppling down and sought to distance himself by getting the first word in! But by now we all know what he saw -the total collapse of the economy! Now Kayihura is quiet and his deputy Turyagumanawe has become the fall guy! Rwego too was sacrificed along the way!!!

I have no idea where Mukula is going to hide himself after the most recent wikileaks revelation! I can see those GAVI scandal trials that were on hold suddenly being reinstated! Could he perchance be the first victim of those anti bail laws that Uncle Kags wishes to introduce?

I really laughed when I saw the part where Mukula fancies himself president in 2016! Banange ka nesekere kko, muzukulu wa Gabunga! The man sounded like he was auditioning for the post of president -to the American embassy!

He did make some revelations that are interesting even though they are obvious! It is obvious that the prosecution of former Vice President Bukenya was a case of selective prosecution. The real question of course was why. In my opinion that I have already stated several times here, it is to ensure that Bukenya has a criminal record and can never stand for president in future -effectively eliminating a potential rival for the post of president as well as a potential challenger within the NRM! Mukula confirms this several times.

He then plays a regional gamble that is going to backfire in his face big time with his comments regarding Odinga! After this wikileak, his name for all its worth is mud on both sides of the border!

I do agree with him about the significance of the 2009 Buganda riots. If there was one sign of impending trouble, it was those riots. Who knew that Ugandans could spontaneously erupt in that way -not in Gulu but in Kampala! And events since during the walk to work have shown that the NRM is sitting on a boiling hot cauldron, ready to errupt at short notice without warning!

I can see that your daddy is stirring up just such a cauldron in threatening teachers with getting sacked if they do not report to work today! Anyone who has worked everyday for the last 25 years for less than 200,000 like teachers have is fed up and is an angry man looking for a spark! While you people in the NRM have been feeding yourselves and awarding yourselves fat salaries and perks as well as selling yourself everything that can move as well as some that cannot move, many Ugandans have been eating patriotism and hoping for a break! I think the prime minister like Kayihura did is about to find out what true peoples power means!!! http://www.monitor.co.ug/News/National/-/688334/1230474/-/bjcqliz/-/index.html

The recent strikes in all sectors are an interesting pattern. Coupled with the riots as well as the recent 'desertions' of the NRM ship by spooked rats like Nagenda, a pattern seems to emerge that confirms that the centre can no longer hold! The wolves are smelling blood and circling their prey soon will be attacking! do you think that it is coincidence that we are being drip fed on the wikileaks files? From your own rather interesting revelations to Mukula's recent ones! I await the next wikileaks instalments from Muhwezi and Bukenya among others!

As I have said before, the rats are deserting the ship! At the very least, they are spooked! And the emperor is naked! And the peasants are restless!

http://www.wikileaks.org/cable/2009/09/09KAMPALA1096.html
