## [The paesant Generals are only fit or bulungi bwansi not to run a modern country!](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?created&&note_id=10150225488427681)

Wednesday, June 22, 2011 at 11:27pm


Dear Nina,
 
Today I decided to read all 350 comments on that mad [mukiga Nathans page](https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=217098901646572&set=a.100120663344397.48.100000393901179&type=1&theater). One man Apollo Kakwenzire, stood out! Not just for his insulting comments about Baganda but also about his blind sycophancy towards the NRM and its policies! 
 
 LOL, I often wonder how people mortgage their brains in support of a government that is past its due by date! Poor Apollo Kakwenzire is still at it! Denying, bullying, browbeating all in an attempt at proving that white is black and that Museveni and the NRM have the skills and the will to take this country forward! How shallow can a man be?Ugandans were quite happy to give him some tough love though!!!
 
 What happened to Mwenda is simple stuff. Ask any teacher and they will tell you that this is basic psychology. If you have a disruptive child in class, you single them out and make them the class prefect and soon you will have thm trying to maintain calm in the class.
 
 Franz Fanon had a name for people like Mwenda -comprador bourgeoisie. The become a part of the system once they have got something to protect. When Mwenda was drawing a salary, he was siding with the man on the street. Now that Mwenda runs a 5 billion shilling company, his concerns are the same as those of the oppressors -protecting his bottom line! He has got something to lose!
 
 Thats why Franz Fanon advocated for dispossessing the cmprador bourgeoisie for until they know what it is to be hungry, what it is to be jobless or what it is to be opressed, they will continue to act to protect their own interests! I can bet that Mwenda's companies get a significant amount of their business from the state like most media houses in Uganda! When Mwenda left the Monitor, he was railing against his being gagged to protect the business interests of the Agha Khan who had then purchased the newspaper! As an owner, his interests and those of the state converge and he gets more and more distant from the ideals of the common man. For him to get his critical edge back, you would have to burn his company down and reduce him back to a level where he understands the aspirations of the average Ugandan!
 
 Museveni finessed the art of buying off loud mouths! When he first came to power, a commission of inquiry was the most common way of buying off loud mouths. So every Makerere lecturer who made too much noise against government policy, got a commission of inquiry the result of which would never get published! Soon he graduated to politicians -so vocal anti corruption critics like Nsadhu got co opted into the machine -and became a part of the machine!
 
 He graduated to offering ministries as bribes, then ambassadorships t the point where there is only one serving career diplomat at the rank of ambassador the rest being political appointees -essentially political rejects some of whom sold out their constituents!
 
 You can extend this patronage and political bribery to layers of politicians and political appointees like RDC's and their deputies, LC council chairpersons at all levels down to the village level! This creates a system of graft and corruption as well as an unproductive layer of overpaid political sycophants milking the public purse as long as they sing "the man in the hat is the only man with a vision"!
 
 Virtually every member of the NRM is tainted. The longer their incumbency, the higher the likelihood! They have perfected the art of lying to the tax paying public!
 
 The truth is that Museveni's government is incompetent and lacks the skills to carry this country forward. This is reflected in the recent cabinet appointments as well as the budget which offers nothing new or radical!
 
 Musveveni's continuing rule is a private project. It is a family mafia! At its core, is a family esconced into government like its a private company. There is a wife who is a full minister and MP, a son whose accelerated rise in the army could not possibly have been on merit but nepotism, a presidents office that cannot run without a first daughter as the presidential secretary an another as the chaplain, a brother to the president whose fingers are in business, in private armies and secretive government projects siphoning off large amounts of money ostensibly for poverty alleviation, yet no one seems to know where the queue is or who belongs to his farmers associations, an anti corruption unit in health set up in state house run by an adopted daughter, sons in law, brothers in law, sisters in law, sisters etc, all in government without going through any known or advertised interviews! And we wont even go into the rumours of people recruited from some peoples villages to government departments or in the first ladies kitchen!
 
 You people must believe that Ugandans are stupid! That tired line about people in the diaspora not knowing what goes on in Uganda is overused! Who do you think finances the failure of Museveni's government to provide social services? When people go to hospital and need money for drugs, they call their relatives in the diapora and line up outside western union not any government office for they know the government abdicated its responsibility a long time ago! If Ugandans in the diapora were to stop sending money to relatives to create jobs and pay for social services, your government would not last a day for the paesants would rise up and kick you out! By the time one drives from Entebbe to Kampala one has seen dust, uncollected garbage, potholes, poverty, chaos, bribery and corruption name it unless they are blind. All eveidence of poor government! A week will aquiant one with all sorts of social problems from health to edication to housing all through the long lines of supplicants for ones help. Yet you preside over tis heap of refuse and garbage and try to pass it off as a miracle!
 
 For five years maybe! For ten, really!! For 25 years, quite frankly you should all be lined up against a wall and shot! Shot for trying to pass off a not so convincing counterfeit as success and development!
 
 Seriously after 25 years of "development" one of the most important items in the budget is the price of hoes!!! There is no strategy for employment. We talk about tourism without any evidence that we even know what the word means and we are obsessed with increasing a jobless semi literate population with no skills and hoping that consumption without production will be the main driver of an internal market! Industrialisation without reliable or adequate power? Goodness! Power should be one of the first priorities of recovery economies! That 25 years later we are still doing stuff that should have been done in the first decade of NRM rule suggests gross incompetence and negligence. Certainly it suggests that Museveni and his paesant Generals need to return to the barracks or better still their farms and hand over to a more competent generation! Which schools of economics did our so called leaders attend?
 
 In any dveloped economy for the Governor of the central bank to make the kind of statements that Mutebile made, would demand his resignation or the collapse of the government! Certainly it would be an ominous event that could precipitate runs on the banks, a collapse of markets, a drop in investor confidence, a flight of foreign capital, an increase in inflation and an increse in interest rates and consumer prices. All indicators suggest that all of this is already happening in Uganda!
 
 All of that irresponsible spending was bound to catch up with us. All the money stolen to finance an election at all costs was bound to contribute to inflation while drawing on our reserves to fund fighter jets we do not need was bound to cause problems too!
 
 AS for Apollo's story about his brother from the UK who run an incompetent campaign seriously all the story proves is that the possession of a university degree is not proof of intelligence!
 
 The Jasmine revolution in north Africa was triggered by food prices. This government is in trouble!
