## [When winners lose by winning!](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-when-winners-lose-by-winning/10150490127362681)

Friday, January 20, 2012 at 11:20pm ·


Dear Nina,

Its been a while since I last wrote you a love note. I had planned to allow you to pop that bab in peace but your people are getting so annoying they have inspired me once again!

What exactly is wrong with you people? Do you have any political analysts or are you so inured against the reality in Uganda that you do not see whats going on? I told you the peasants will come for you with pitchforks. The masses are getting stirred up and not by external forces as you would like to believe! You guys are your own worst enemies!

Did you see the photo of Besigye in his cell as a guest of Kaguta? I am sure the presidents cows and dogs have better abodes! The utter contempt in which you people hold Ugandans is interesting. I wonder when its your turn which prisons you believe you are going to be held in? Given you have set the standards, do you expect that new spanky prisons will be built just for you? This man in Malawi who just won an elction not too long ago was in Besigye's position for many years -- in opposition. But there came a time when people asked Banda to leave and go back to his farm or whatever it is that presidents are supposed to do when they retire! I think I know what president Museveni's problem is -never having done any other work save shooting people and being president, he is afraid he will become irrelevant if he ever retires! But he needs to take a cue from Gaddafi whose people fired him when he refused to read the writing on the wall!

A few months ago, uncle Kaguta was offended that the men of God instead of begging him for 4WD's pointed out that the last election was bought with massive voter bribery! You and many members of the NRM have vehemently denied that you used state funds to buy votes. You have also denied having triggered the current inflation pointing out that it is a global phenomenon. I of course disagree. In Uganda the fundamentals are flawed and you cannot blame global factors. And fiscal indiscipline by your government triggered this inflation. The CBR used as the main instrument by BOU to mop up liquidity and reduce inflation is not likely to achieve that goal and will more than likely just slow down economic growth.

A blogger who has read the BOU reports using intuition and logic like myself has pointed out a very interesting graph! http://mugumya.com/2012/01/12/why-does-bou-insist-on-high-cbr-when-they-know-itll-do-more-harm/inflation-4/ You really need to see it and read the blogger, proudugandan's take on the whole CBR thing! All of this shows that you guys in the NRM are economic saboteurs and triggered this inflation and have caused untold damage to many mums and dads just struggling to survive! First you flooded the larket with money. BOU says they didnt print any new money but this graph says otherwise! Then you depleted the reserves to buy some baubles aka fighter jets just for the bragging rights so you could compare 'nankani' with the regional big boys! You cannot even fly the machines and therefore continue to deplete the country of 800 million shillings each month to pay the Russian pilots while Ugandans starve and teachers remain unpaid!

I wonder whats with those military fatigues in Kyankwanzi! You guys really look ridiculous in military fatigues and paunches testifying to all of the good food and beer you have eaten at the expense of our citizens! What message exactly are you trying to convey anyway? All of you look soft and too well fed to do any fighting! Who do you believe you are kidding anyway? If a real war broke out, you guys would be flying off to South America and Kigali while Kayihura's bully boys would be discarding their uniforms and running off to the villages. You think they would stand arouund and get killed for you? If you think so, you haven't seen where and how policemen live! If you think that Besigye's cell looks fit for a pig, then you really need to see where policemen live!

I laughed when I read that the overfed NRM politicians probably after smoking too much of an illegal substance at Kyankwanzi proposed the firing squad for economic saboteurs! I wonder whether they realise that the gun is pointing right at them!

Do you guys listen to the streets? Like really have your ars to the ground? You are so out of touch with the sentiment on the streets its not funny!

Think about this. There was a time when you guys didnt need to showforce at every corner and every 200 metres to rule the country. Now you are practically pooping your pants and think that guns will protect you from angry Ugandans whereas before it was goodwill and HUMINT voluntarily given by the population!

Methinks the level of security speaks for itself! Did you watch those videos of the new heroine created by your dumb goons exercising their neanderthal instincts? Ingrid Turinawe is fast becoming the face of resistance against NRM idiocy! You guys never learn. Besigye would have been an unknown if you guys hadnt decided to beat him to a pulp. The more you beat him up and the more stories you made up about him, the higher his star arose. I hear that woman Kutesa who you rewarded with secondment to Interpol was just offered a lucrative post. But I also hear that she may not enjoy it for very long if Ugandan activists have their way!

Now this Ingrid woman. Did you see how she led Kayihura's boys on a wild goose chase all over the city? The idiots are so slow its painful to watch them! But what is even more interesting to watch is the publics response to her antics. if that does not tell you something then you must be very slow. But I can break it down for you gently -abantu babakoowa! Mubesibila ko bweerere! Dont Kale's boys have anything useful to do?

If thats not convincing enough just evaluate the last year since you 'won' the elections. I told you it would be a pyrrhic victory and pyrrhic it has been. Am sure uncle Kaguta wishes he had retired while he was still ahead! The man who once said that the problem with africa was leaders who did not know when to retire, the one who claims to have fought against life president, is now a life president. Afraid of his own shadow. Scared that some small woman without an army is going to topple him from his confort!

Naye kale bantu mwe mulina ababbi! Even uncle Kaguta told uncle Paul the other day when he was in Kigali that his government was full of thieves. And as soon as he came back to Kampala, they proved him right.

How can a cabinet function with so many ministers accused of stealing? Now I hear 35 ministers were also stealing from UBC -35 out of 79 ministers is virtually half the cabinet!

You guys are tripping all over yourselves everyday. Mistakeafter mistake after mistake. I love it when you delude yourselves that you are under attack. People are questioning you -your running of this country and if you cannot take the heat, get out of the kitchen. Stop telling lies about terrorists. There are no terroristsout to get you! You are only victims of your own incompetence and intolerance! And jumping at your own shadows!

At this rate if you cannot see that you need to start planning your exit, then you are in plenty of trouble! I told you before that you will lose when you win! You have been checkmated and you can only go down. As a party, the NRM will like UPC need to be destroyed before you can build a new party!

P.S: Good luck with the bab.

  
Filed under: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/nina/) Tagged: [Elections](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/elections/), [Letter to Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/letter-to-nina/)
