## When rats start to desert a sinking ship!

Monday, June 20, 2011 at 11:49pm


Dearest Nina,  
   
Hope you are fine.  
   
I can see you have been tying yourself up in knots trying to understand Uncle Kaguta's economics! Me I gave up on trying to understand him a long time ago! The more he stands before a board and tries to explain it, the less I understand!  
   
Have you ever had an older person who was important in your life when you were growing up? Someone who you looked up to and thought he was brilliant? Maybe a parent, maybe an uncle? Or just maybe a teacher or elder around the neighbourhood? It could even have been that older guy in the neighbourhood who used to make your heart sing in the hope he would notice you!  
   
And then you grew up! And realised that it was all hot air! That they were really a dissappointment and that in your young mind you had built them up inot more than they really were! that they really were quite ordinary! And as they grow pot bellied and the hairline recedes, you start to wonder what it is exactly that used to make your heart pound!!  
   
Thats the way that many of Museveni's children feel about uncle Kaguta but the poor man does not get it! Instead of retiring while he is still ahead, he continues to hang on until the little children will start to laugh at him! Why exactly people put themselves through that, I have no idea! The other day, Ghadafi's son was proposing an election in Libya with his father as a candidate! After 42 years, dont these people get it? Ghadafi overthrew a king and declared a republic! Yet he continues to rule like a king -for life! Museveni overthrew what he called dictators! Now he looks more and more like those he overthrew!  
   
Talking of Ghadafi, I read that speech to the UN by uncle Ndugu Rugunda! today is going to be a Bakiga fest! The other day it was a Bahima fest! But these Bahima individuals, they do not eat alone! The clan and tribe should not be blamed. And it should be recognised that they have apologists and do not eat alone! uncle Ndugus speech got full marks for pulling all of the right strings! Pan Africanism whatever that is! Colonialism and neocolonialism and even racism the convenient clubs of the african autocrat when he is caught with his zippers down! Make the white man feel guilty that he is bombing Africans. Never mind the Africans are always bombing each other! i never heard ndugu make any wonderful speeches during the walk to work when all those innocent people were shot down and killed by Kaguta and Kayihura's boys! Nor during the so called Buganda riots or Kasubi. Or when all those people in the north were in camps for more than a decade! Have you ever seen those camps? They make one ashamed to be Ugandan, that all of those people with their kids were wards of the state, yet they were in such poverty and misery! How do you guys sleep at night? Not for one night but every night for thirty years and counting? Do you ever sit up at night and think about all of those people who have been killed or have died so that you could eat?  
   
At the end of the day, I was unimpressed by Rugunda's speech! I firmly believe that when a government turns its guns against its civilians, it loses lefgitimacy and with it its monopoly on the carriage of guns! Every citizen automatically gains the right to take up arms in their self defence! Ghadafi is not exactly known for his magnanimity towrds his enemies! All of those people who protested against him knew what was coming to them -that they would be slaughtered! Better to die fighting if one has to die! As it is, they have not been very easy to slaughter! Me I gave Ghadafi gabwerere. He needs to get himself a Pimochet solution while locking out the Europeans while he still has some bargaining power!  
   
Thats not to say that the Europeans are there for altruistic motives. of course they are not! We all know what they re after -oil! But that is Africans and Arabs weakness. How that really wide UN resolution was allowed to pass without any comment or challenge, I have no idea! Where were the Rugunda's? Where was the arab league? The UN itself loses legitimacy for having allowed such a resolution to pass. And the lethargic African despots heading the AU, whoever said that a monkey can ever be the arbiter in a case involving the forest? They are saving their behinds! they know that the west has finessed the art of politicising everything, fitting it into neat labels like "weapons of mass destruction", genocide, "rape as a weapon of war" and even potential genocide! Of course the presence of Somalia, and Congo immediately show the lie in their actions in Libya!   
   
Back to uganda and Bakiga! Totya, am not going to mention daddy dear or Temangalo! Today he is safe. After being defanged and saddled with a bloated incompetetnt cabinet and a greedy bloated parliament, I pitty him! You remember I predicted Bukenya downfall last year? And that others like daddy dear needed to make sure they keep a black book just in case they are stabbed in the back? What happened to Bukenya can happen to anyone. That he alone ends up before the corruption court when others like Kutesa who actually set up the vehicle through which the government was fleeced is declared clean beats my understanding! That a company in which Kutesa had shares and sold to Kabonero was the main bidder outside normal procurement rules in a deal that was flawed and fraudulent beats my understanding. I would love to know the value of Kutesa's shareholdng and what exactly it is he was selling? Daddy dear as leader of government business just became the ultimate fall guy! After the wikileaks scandal in which you were mentioned by that ka Australian man with women issues, the elevation of daddy, or is it the demotion of daddy kind of reminds me of the Godfathers kiss! You remember that kiss meant certain death!!!  
   
Another mukiga has been on the rampage. Again he is a mukiga who has served to entrench this government for 25 years! This is another one who has been talking through "unofficial channels"! HAsn't he ever heard of a man called Besigye? If I could talk to him, I would refer him to videos on the net of Besigye being beaten black and bule and being shoved under a seat on a pickup like "ebiwaata byente"! When that man Kakwenzire threatened that mad man Nathan who brought up the Bahima debate with taking him to Nyabushoozi and making him look after cattle for a year in bare feet, I saw the kind of mentality that drove the heinous acts against Besigye. But I digress -if you speak to Mutebile and I know you speak to all of the important Bakiga, tell him to make sure he has got a parachute as they will be sending Arinaitwe and other such thugs to get him!!! You think these things ended with idi Amin?   
   
But I like what Mutebile is saying. For the first time in 25 years he has decided to say the truth. Better late than never. I think all of that fiscal indiscipline accompanying the elections nust have got to his head! What with money being collected left right and centre! Who would not lose their sanity of they were required to balance the books in that situation!!! I wonder what jolted him? Are they replacing him with a cadre from Janets village? You can tell me -I wont tell! I hear all of those under the bed scholarships have started bearing fruit! Seriously, Museveni has been preaching industrialisation for 25 years? What does he think factories run on? No dam built and when they tried to build one, the design was faulty! No one paid for that one! Now we are belatedly trying to catch up on lost time!   
   
Mutebile talks about vocational training. Now he is singing my tune! I personally have never been impressed by the mango tree degrees they are churning out in Uganda! it is a perfect scam -a rip off! Passing out half baked graduates who are essentially unemployable but now have an inflated sense of self! Banage we are dead if these half baked UPE graduates ever get into office! But what can you expect in a country where Sebagala can not only be a mayor but a 'minister without fortpolio' as well! Just because he put his behind before the president! I wonder what daddy dear is going to do with that one! Dump him in the dumping ground of the foreign office where political rejects end up? No wonder one cannot get service from a Ugandan embassy abroad! Back to vocational training a country talking about industrialisation should relly be talking vocationl training schools not glorified universities not worth the paper their degrees are printed on!  
   
That other mukiga in Canada who run away 30 years ago also wrote a letter today. it was a heartwarming one. Inportantly he told the story of how he supported Museveni during the war but soon realised that what he thought they were figting for is not what Museveni had in mind! We all have that feeliing!  
   
Bakiga are coming out of the woodworks every day. First it was that Nathan! Now its Kanyeihamba! Retirement and old age are wondeful things! One can tell people the truth and pretend they didnt mean to insult them! If challenged, one can always claim to have dementia! Kanyeihamba is enjoying himself and I say, whatever he is smoking is good stuff! Bamwongere! He is saying it like it is! At least me, I kubikabikka ko! For him, he just unleashes with full force! I need me a head of white hair and sme retirement and I will find me some weed and tell them what they need to hear!  
   
First they came for the communists, and I did not speak out -- because I was not a communist;   
Then they came for the socialists, and I did not speak out -- because I was not a socialist;   
Then they came for the trade unionists, and I did not speak out -- because I was not a trade unionist;   
Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out -- because I was not a Jew;   
Then they came for me -- and there was no one left to speak out for me.   
   
Nienmoller  
   
This family project is going to take everyone with it starting with its most faithful house staff! Bukenya the butler was the frst one to be sarificed! I wonder who is next!!! The Bakiga seem to be waking up and want to jump out of this 'westerners' boat!  
   
When rats start deserting a ship, you know things are not good! better look for a dunny! Me I will hide you under my bed tofaayo!
