## State capture and the Bahima debate


Dear Nina,

I can see you have been busy putting out the fire that that Nathan started. I love self interest. If we all exercised enough of it, Ugandan would have a much better future. One thing that Nathans post has brought out is just how much resentment there is towards Bahima. A lot of it is irrational, but it has got to be defused. And that cannot happen if its simply ignored. I can therefore understand why you have been very active on that forum trying to put out fires. For you see if this particular fire does engulf us, your lovely Bahima children will be victimised for issues they had nothing to do with nor created. But even more serious is the fact that that fire like all mob justice will be irrational with indiscriminate targets who may range anywhere from every westerner to everyone below the Karuma!

I think that defusing all of that tension is a worthwhile cause. I would therefore like to redirect this debate.

I have never been one for conspiracies. For years I have heard about the Basiita clan meeting and how they control the country and have a wide agenda extending t and covering the whole region. I prefer not to believe in it. Its the same for rumours regarding Museveni not being Ugandan -I always wonder so what? As far as am concerned its diversionary to discuss whether Museveni is Ugandan or not. And whether he is a munyarwanda or not is immaterial because it does not make him any less of a Ugandan than any number of other border tribes. We do have out very own bonafide Ugandan Rwandese being both those derived from proper Rwandese migrants who migrated to uganda pre -independence as well as the Bafumbira in Kisoro.If there are Bahima who believe in their superirority, then I pity them -its their own funeral!

While I have visited Nathans discussion a few times i have only read about twenty posts. Today I checked and there are over 300. Still not sure if I wish to add to them in which case I would have to read the whole thread or just move on. Am sure many other people have already said what I would say or have already said in my own Bahima post -the Bahima conspiracy is a smokescreen the only difference between the Basiita clan meeting and any other clan meeting if it ever happened is that there are Bahima in key government positions but these meetings with clan agendas happen all of the time all over the place. Their being in key government positions makes them very visible. In addition being in control of government for 25 years means that they are perceived to own the NRM, its government as well as all of its mistakes that include the various social disasters such as thieving politicians as well as corruption and poor social services!

The reality is that these clan meetings happen all of the time all over the country. Individual clans among the Basoga, Baganda, Banyoro, Batoro, Acholi, etc, all ethnic groups and familes, clans and subclans have these sectarian meetings with the agenda of advancing family, clan or ethnic interests. Buganda has had its national conference, its annual meetings in america and various other gatherings at all levels of Ganda society. Basoga nseete have had their own international and local meetings too as well as smmaller individual clan gatherings. The Acholi have had Kachoke Madit at international level as well as in East africa. Right now the Bakiga have a major do the ICOB meeting in the UK to discuss sectarian interests and how to develop their people and region. Even the scandal that your dad was involved in Temangalo had a community service component to it in that the proceeds of Temangalo were apparently meant to "save" the "Bakiga bank" in which the Bakiga community had significant savings from foreign takeover by Nigerians!

There are even some more disturbing rumours. While everyone likes to exagerate Buganda's potential to secede from this unhappy marriage called Uganda, there are other groups whose plans may be even more advanced. No one talks about the so called "Luo agenda", a plan proposed by some Luo groups to secede from Uganda to form a Luo republic. I am sure you may have heard about some of these rumours. When Mao suggested that northern Uganda would secede from Uganda, the suggestion was not pulled from thin air but had a body of support behind it. 

I have met some Luo radicals in other fora who actually believe seriously in this agenda. Some claim to hav even participated in the Kenyan massacres which they saw as a Luo oppotunity to rule Kenya through Odinga and use him as a springboard as well as a Luo government in Southern Sudan to take power in Uganda. While I may not take them seriously, the reality is that they believe and have convinced themselves that they are not wanted in Uganda and will need to rethink their options. The problem of course is that some have built up a case for Bunyoro being a part of their Luo republic being as far as they are concerned a Luo (Babiito) kingdom. Museveni himself buttressed that view when he was playing his divide and rule in Buganda but it appears that it may come back to bite his presidential butt for I can see a war erupting in Bunyoro if a Nile "luo" republic" were to happen and claim the oil fields in Bunyoro which happen to be in Buliisa on Bagungu land. Bagungu are probably Luo in origin too! Luo disaffection with Uganda of course is due to the fact that sevices have not reached their homelands and peace has been elusive for over two decades.

Some of these groups have got extensive political and military plans that have been going on for years. And some of them are radicals with quite dangerous and fairly advanced plans. Their plan is to 'reunite' the Luo empire by uniting northern Ugandan Luo as well as those in eastern Kenya, southern Sudan and western Ethiopia to create some sort of modern Luo republic. this is Plan B according to some to be activated if Otunnu is "frustrated" in Uganda by the "Buganda problem". They intend to petition the UN to secede. from these countries. The accenscion of Barack Obama to the US presidency was viewed by some of them as a sign. They have blindly put their faith in Otunnu taking power but unfortunately he failed to connect with the masses on the ground which some have convinced themselves is because of the "Buganda problem"! And some of them have joined armies in the diaspora in deliberate anticipation!

As you can see Ugandan has major problems that cannot be blamed on the Bahima collectively. Museveni's deliberate divide and rule policies have created a monster that threatens Ugandans future and threatens new wars. Unfortunately the so called country Uganda is really a sham. this is a country that was cobbled together by western interests rather than local interests. We are a creation of the British and do not have a national identity. Obote created his republic by uniting the rest of the country against perceived Buganda "superiority complexes".Museveni has united a few eaters around a core of Bahima tribesmates while promoting cronism and impunity.

We claim unity but when have we ever been united as Ugandans? If anything those who claim a national identity are usually those who want to take control of the whole country for their own small ethnic group while claiming national unity! So we keep rotating eaters from one region to another who sing national unity while eating locally! At the same time we rotate violence. If anything the only thing we have in common is the rotation of violence with each change of government. First it was Baganda, then it was Acholi, then it was West Nilers and nubians, then Baganda, then Acholi -do we really want it to be Bahima this time? This cycle of violence needs to stop while we seek a national identitiy. What is Uganda? What does it mean to be Ugandan?

There are some Bahima eating of that there is no doubt. But so are many other westerners as well as NRM members from other regions albeit in probably smaller numbers. Some of them are primitive eaters who eat with impunity -the ones I called bush Bahima in my note. But they are careful to spread some of the money around so there are Banyankore enclaves, Bakiga eaters  as well as others, all of which creates an impression that the whole west is eating. Some practices of course like "personalised scholarships" sourced from foreign governments and treated as personal property given out to family members and their local areas by powerful members of the NRM against the leadership code and the public service code when viewed against an incumbence of 25 years create regional imbalances in education and employment that increase resentment.

When we all went to uni, we had classmates some of them very weak students whose jobs were assured when the rest were walking the streets for years and not all of them are Bahima. In my brothers business admin class in a private university, the only one who got a government job straight from uni was the son of a prominent mukiga in Bank of Uganda. My brother got a job in one of the new dstricts after forfeiting six months of his salary -can you imagine that? He later chose to resign and go off to the UK after refusing to sign off on dodgy and illegal stuff his boss was trying to get him to sign! Another girl in the same class only got a job many years later after doing a masters degree -and that was because someone else -connected her!

Uganda is captive to vested interests, some of them tribal, but mostly regional and personal. Dr Silver Kugonza in [an article](http://www.independent.co.ug/column/comment/4246?task=view), says that _"In State Capture economy, powerful individuals run the government"_ He adds that, _"by recognising the dynamics of state capture, one can get a clearer understanding of the cause of persistent corruption in Uganda"_. He further adds that _"State capture was faclitated by the bonanza of privatisation and divestiture of early 1990′s. The businesses that emerged then worked hard to manipulate policy formation and actual practices thus shaping the emerging rules of the game in their favour."_

He states that, 

> _"This phenomenon of state capture comes out of efforts by business firms to shape decisions taken by the state to gain specific advantages, often through the imposition of anticompetitive barriers that generate highly concentrated gains to selected powerful firms/businesses/individuals at a significant social cost. Because such firms use their influence to block any policy reforms that might eliminate these advantages, state capture becomes not merely a symptom but also a fundamental cause of poor governance. In this view, the capture economy is trapped in a vicious circle in which the policy and institutional reforms necessary to improve governance are undermined by collusion between powerful firms/businesses/individuals and state officials who reap substantial private gains (rents) from the continuation of weak governance."_

> _Further manifestations may be "bribes" to parliamentarians to "buy" their votes on important pieces of legislation, bribes to government officials to enact favourable regulations or decrees/statutes, bribes to judges to influence court decisions -these are the classic examples of grand corruption through which firms/businesses can encode advantages for themselves into the basic legal and regulatory structure of the economy."_

Dr Kugonza goes on to define state captors thus; 

> _"Although the concept of state capture naturally conjures up images of powerful oligarchs, captors come in a wide range of sizes and sectors. Often, captor firms/businesses are more likely to be new entrants to the market such foreign investors and their in-country partners who form a coalition that draws attention of the state away from reliance on the grassroots structures and popular demands._

> _Going back to our situation in late and early 1990s, our state was weak, unable to provide most basic public goods and with a set of a few powerful incumbent state enterprises/firms (these were predominantly state owned) dominating their respective markets without having to resort to bribery payments such as Uganda Commercial Bank. To compete in such an environment, new entrants adopted a strategy of state capture to buy greater security for their property rights from public officials and to encode, or incorporate, competitive advantages into the emerging legal and regulatory framework. State capture thus became a strategy for a few firms to create zones of relative security and advantage for themselves at the expense of all other firms/businesses or groups._

> _It is generally argued that once a country has fallen into the trap of a capture economy, foreign direct investment can magnify the problem. In high-capture economies, some types of foreign investors---those with local partners and domestic headquarters---are nearly twice as likely to engage in state capture as domestically owned firms. (By contrast, trans-national firms headquartered abroad that engage in foreign direct investment provide kickbacks more often than domestic firms when competing for public procurement contracts. The dangers to the long-term development of such a capture economy are that new, dynamic entrepreneurs have strong incentives to invest their talents in capturing the state rather than in developing innovative products or production methods, in order to compete successfully in a distorted environment. The capture economy rewards connections over competence, influence and innovation; it is fuelled by private investments in politics that weaken the state and undermine the provision of basic public goods. At the same time, capture systematically deters private investment in the economy, both foreign and domestic, and creates obstacles to the entry of small and medium-sized enterprises thus undermining the key sources of sustainable growth. This partly explains the cycles of rapid economic growth, stagnation and declines."_

As you can see, this conspiracy debate is centred around a powerful Hima conspiracy led by powerful Hima oligarchs in government such as Kutesa and Museveni leading a secretive Hima organisation with a "50 year plan". The Hima community has now collectively been labelled as an exploitative tribal based mafia with an agenda to build a powerful Hima -Tutsi business empire covering the whole region with all Bahima as shareholders and Ugandans as the losers. this is a dangerous theory that i refuse to subscribe to. As Dr Kugonza argues, it is more likely individual business interests working with local partners in politics and the military who have captured the state rather than the Bahima community. The Bahima may or maynot have had a clan meeting but other communities in Uganda have had similar meetings with similar agenda's.

Dr Kugonza concluded that, 

> _"By recognising the dynamics of state capture, one can gain a much clearer understanding of the factors underlying the persistence of corruption in many developing countries, Uganda inclusive. Any reforms to improve the institutional framework, which might undermine these highly concentrated advantages, will be strongly and swiftly be dealt with by a coalition of captors that have the political, military and other forms of influence to derail such reforms whatever shapes, shades of colours or camouflage they assume ..."_

The solution to dismantling this state capture therefore is to identify those individuals who have been the agents of this state capture. While many of these may be Bahima, there are many others who are not. The Bahima as a whole are thus being labelled and face persecution for a problem they are not responsible for as a community. The focus of this debate should be redirected to identifying those individuals within the NRM and the military -business complex who have captured our state and control policy and state actions. These are the ones responsible for the malaise we find ourself in.

My suggestion is to start with those members of the NRM who have got extensive business linkages including partnersip with foreign firms controling our economy. No community should be made to pay the price fr the crimes of individuals from thsoe communities.

 
