## [Now you think you can teach me about patriotism?](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-now-you-think-you-can-teach-me-about-patriotism/10150971039087681)

Thursday, August 9, 2012 at 11:55pm ·

https://www.facebook.com/notes/nina-mbabazi/drew-and-his-katayimbwa-goons/10151089035384449?notif_t=comment_mention

Nina, dearest,

You are now acknowledging what has been common knowledge for many weeks and feigning ignorance? Ekyo bambi ekigali nkibuusse mu togya kumalilla budde. Those who really wanted to know or express their concern did so a very long time ago while the details are all online for those interested in them.

Am not quite sure whats wrong with the Mbabazi household as one of your relatives Patrick has been asking similar annoying questions like he didn't know how to read! Dude was so confused that if I didnt know he was not a recipient of the crappy UPE education of bonna bakone, I would have thought that he too was a UPE graduate. My grandmother would have put it best by saying, "bambi musassire. anti yakoona!"! "Enoo simanyi UPE yaMuseveni bambi ebabugumyako bubugumya!"

I will however respond to one question as it raises serious public health and law abiding ramifications. I would never sit on a boda boda if it were the last transport available! those things kill and maim people. Under the NRM, they have flourished and are everywhere like flies on poo! Nothing demonstrates the lawlessness over which Kayihura presides than watching boda bodas ride through the city breaking all the rules right in front of police officers!

Of course the other people who demonstrate just how mucu the NRM has lost control of the city is butayimbwa. I can see that you demonstrate your ignorance by assuming that its only boda bodas who are targeted! i assume that you are trying to imply that they would never be able to get to you in your big fuel guzzling 4WD and that if i was mugged, i must have been using my God given 2WD or a boda boda! i am afraid i will have to disabuse you of that ignorance of the security situation in Kampala! contrary to what you believe, all sorts of people and all sorts of surburbs have been besieged by butayimbwa wielders!

Am sorry if you were under the impression that i accused you of hiring thugs to finish me off. When i say you, i mean your as representing the NRM, the party you personally helped to grab power last year and received a public acknowledgement by president Museveni. i know that you now want to forget just like your dad would like us to forget that he is one of the architects of the chaos over which the NRM has presided! if the NRM and Museveni have brought chaos and corruption to Uganda, his bossom buddy, hatchetman and chief strategist Amama Mbabazi has got to be condmned together with him. This shall not be the time to say, "mbu silya nyama ndyamu supu!" i nowhere implied that you had gone out and hired goons to finish me off but that YOU (you, AM, NRM, Pres Kaguta) have created the conditions for the lawlessness that now characterises Kampala and almost resulted in my death!

i notice that all of you, yourself, daddy and uncle Kaguta use the same strategy! Blame the lowest common denominator, the guy at the bottom! so in the PM's office blame Kazinda but let the PS OPM as well as that of finance get away scott free for presiding over a fraud that now spans 3 decades.You use the same disingenuous excuse in Mulago! you mention the video from abim hospital. i wonder whether you really bothered to watch that video. if you had, you would have listened to the voices of frontline staff -the people who work everyday in the mud and muck upto their elbows and eyeballs in human refuse and virus infected blood minus protective gear! instead, you chose to be jingoistic just like the PM and the president have been -focus on the little man and woman who often times are helpless!

Mulago has a computer -God save us all! Now that mulago has a computer I assume we do not need doctors. I find it interesting listening to your account of doctors or the lack of in Mulago casualty and contrasting it with my personal experience as well as my recent chats with interns in Mulago. Are you aware that an intern in Mulago may work a longer than 12 hour shift for 7 days a week, several weeks in a row without any breaks? That they have got to pay for their own hepatitis vaccine jabs to protect themselves from hepatitis which is endemic in uganda? That protective equipment may often be in short supply? Are you awrae that at least one study shows that the mortality rate of a ugandan doctor exceeds greatly that of international averages?

That Ugandan midwives often abused and maligned may have an HIV rate far exceeding that of nurses, the only difference being that midwives are exposed to more patients blood? and what these midwives and junior doctors get paid a month you blow on a meal in a restaurant or just airtime! its all nice and good for you to sit on your high chairs pontificating about the hippocratic oath of which you wouldnt even have the slightest clue without even bothering to look at them as human beings like yourself. human beings who have needs, pay rent, have school fees etc. Ever wondered how they survive on the pitiful salaries you pay them? the other day, your thieving members of parliament increased their own salaries. just a year ago, they robbed the tax payer to pay themselves and help your daddy and uncle Kaguta buy and steal an election! The practice of medicine is both a vocation and a profession. Being a vocation does not grant you the right to exploit and abuse doctors who like yourself want the conforts of life as well as the luxuries! As a profession they are entitled just like you to demand to be paid for their professional services for as a profession, many of them devote decades to training to acquire the skills you wish them to give away free while you guys live it up!

I read with amusement a MoH official describe an MRI scanner as an more advanced CT scan! What ignorance! The story of the dysfunctional MRI, actually never functioned reminds me of some anecdotes from my days in mulago! If you gave me a day, i could go on non stop and still would not run out of stories non of them amusing!

During my intern days, the labour suite received a donation of a fancy looking and very modern delivery bed. The kind that you no doubt have seen in the fancy private labour suites you have been to. trust me it was out of bed in mulago. white and shiny, it was electric. To function properly, it required a power source -you know those outlets in the wall? but the plug it came with didnt fit a ugandan socket. having travelled you would be aware that the british plug used in uganda is not really universal.

A fancy do was put on with ministers posing for photo ops and the New vision wasted some trees on a front page spread! For the next few months, that bed was stuck in the corner, unused. i asked the sister in charge why, and she said it was because they couldnt plug it in the wall. i pointed out that it was just a matter of changing the plug, something i could do myself in five minutes and all they needed to do was to get someone from engineering to do it. a few months later, the bed disappeared presumably to engineering never to return. Having been covered in a layer of dust, it could very easily be passed off as scrap!

in the same unit at another fancy photo op for the politicians and administrators, a batch of fancy new vacuum delivery kits with soft cups that are more kind to little tots brains were delivered. Sister in charge locked them up for fear of them getting stolen and they never saw the light of day. we continued to use old and rusty metal cups.

in another department the casualty I was involved with a project funded by the french government. A young french medical attache was all gung ho about creating an efficient emergency unit. Equipment was installed, theatres, x-ray units, monitors, anaesthesia machines, ECG etc!

These things always require consumables like ECG paper on which to print. once the paper the French had provided got finished, the ECG machines became mueseum pieces. Soon they too found their way to the equipment morgue and never got back!

there are a lot of things wrong with the health system and most of them are leadership and administration. Specifically the lack of leadership at all levels of the NRM government and the corruption that is now firmly embedded in our culture!

I find it amusing that you deign to lecture me on my duties to my country and people! i know my duties and responsibilities. and these start with my civic duty to speak out on issues that affect me and mine. My parents and siblings have got to attend the crappy health care system that you guys have run down. for them to get even a minimum of care, i have to subsidise the crap all that you provide. So dont tell me about patriotism. I contribute to the Ugandan economy including charity! on my last visit, i contributed a significant amount of dollars to your flagging economy as i have done over the years. I even pay taxes! So i have all the right in the world to question the way that you have run this country for 26 years!

As for 'decampaigning' the country, I am very sure you have a misunderstanding there. I was injured in uganda. Te injuries are visible as are the prostheses i have to wear. i have both trauma and surgical scars. of course people who see them ask and given I interface with tens to hundreds of people face to face everyday, i get asked a lot how i got injured. Do you want me to say that i was mugged in Nigeria which by the way has a murder rate less than one sixth of uganda? My comment was that people ask. i respond with the truth while inwardly angry. angry that i know that by telling them the truth i am confirming and reinforcing already established biases and prejudices. but ten or fifteen years ago, i would confidently tell them whene they asked me patronising questions that uganda was getting better under a focused bunch of new politicians who had fought their way to power pushing out murderous dinosaurs.

Now i cannot with confidence say the same thing for truth be told, uganda is now an occupied state. Security everywhere which unfortunately does not prevent people from getting killed. Makes one wonder if the security are the ones knocking off people. actually a shoot out last week netted escurity men who had been robbing people.All i can now say is that the country has gone to the dogs and the sooner we get some change to reignite some hope, the better!

And yes the donors and westerners are biased and prejudiced but who can blame them after watching our buffoons in power who forget to go home?

  
Filed under: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/nina/) Tagged: [Letter to Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/letter-to-nina/)
