## [When the chickens come home to roost!](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=620617398)

Thursday, July 7, 2011 at 9:52pm

 
My dearest Nina,

 

I know you are hiding from me! I know you were hoping that I was distracted by the Obote debate but unfortunately it doesnt really interest me! I actually find it boring! Mbu they wanted me to compare Uncle Kags and the late Obote! What a waste of time! Even baiting that Kakwenzire guy was only interesting for like two hours!

 

Unfortunately the comedy of events that is Uganda has conspired to make you hide yourself from me! But you know my dear, I cannot just let you go without a fight. You and I have got to talk about these things! Hiding in shame will not solve the problems that your uncles are causing us! Quite frankly if Uganda wasn't so tragic, I would be laughing! But its hard to know whether to laugh or cry!

 

You remember very well how I warned you that our uncles win would be a pyrrhic victory. I remember you and your aunt Alice scoffing and saying you would be having a party and breaking out the champagne while I would be hiding my head in shame! I really hate to tell you BUT I told you so! That your uncles would "win" but will then be left holding the ashes with tears running down their faces! I wonder how daddy feels now! I told you Uncle Kaguta gave him a poisoned chalice!

 

If he fails, and things are not looking too good, he will become the scapegoat! Am afraid the way things look, the future does not bode well! And all those Bakiga are not helping! Like the Muhiire, Mutebile, Kanyeihamba -I wonder what they put in the muramba these days! Suddenly they are all asking hard questions! Am waiting for that Ndugu man to join the choir too! You know uncle Kaguta does not like regions that do not support him! Mbu the government will only support those regions that support him! He has been singing that song for years and has demonstrated just how vindictive he can be! Like Yahweh, he punishes the sons for the sins of their fathers! At this rate even that ka -one hospital in Kabalae you were crying about will be closed down! And then you will be eating lizards in Kanungu like those Bateso who refused to support the NRM! And Kabwegyere will be telling you that you Bakiga are all lazy and just sit around drinking muramba like he told the Bateso! Even those Acholis saw the wriing on the wall and "massively" voted for Museveni in that so called election in February!

 

You know I told you your people would bankrupt this nation! You people were spending money like it had gone out of fashion! 6.5 to buy LC's, 650 billion for the presidents vote and popularity buying spree, 20 million each to MP's for their cooperation and passing the "Kabaka muzzling bill", 3 billion for the ka victory party at Kololo that was eclipsed by the free one on Entebbe road where not a cent was spent, 1.7 trillion for those expensive jets they don't know what to do with -banange! And your aunt Alice said mbu Museveni had an ark only for yellow girls like yourself! And those of us who said these things would be left out to drown! Now its true everyone is drowning. Am assuming that you yellow girls are inside the ark cushioned from all of the mayhem outside!

 

Kampala is becoming strike city! I wonder, are you going to shoot all of them? I saw Nabakooba warning them yesterday -mbu she has intelligence they want to cause havoc! Dont these people learn anything? I can see afande Kayihura is now keeping a very low profile!

 

Yesterday it was traders. Ne bwemba nze! Trading certificates going up virtually overnight by 300% and being asked to pay taxes in dollars while earning in a depreciating shilling? You know people are really angry at all of that money the useless ministers and MP's as well as RDC's and various other political hangers on take home! Taxi drivers are joining them too! i think at this rate I may have to invest in a tear gass factory and pepper spray. It will be the only industry that is recession proof! I may need your contacts to the PM and the IGP! 78% of the population was born under Museveni and most of them are unemployed! Can you imagine a more dangerous time bomb? No wonder you guys build such high walls around your homes and some even block off whole streets!

 

When those kids come for their ebyaffe, me I won't hang around to talk to them! Did you see how Uncle Onek was whipping them up? Mbu show me the foreigners so we can deal with them, he said! Mbu they are let in by corrupt people! Now I wonder who these corrupt people are! I thought you people had cadres controlling immigration! Its such a classic trick am surprised people still fall for it! When the NRM mismanages the economy, blame the muyindi! The next thing you know, they will be torching poor Indians instead of the people who are robbing them blind! Isn't that the old Obote trick -if you are poor, its because of the Baganda and if you are lazy -agan blame the Baganda! For Idi Amin, it was even easier -blame the Indians! When things were bad for Moi, he would point the finger at Ugandans. When the Brits are suffering, they point at hard working "Paki's" and Africans! Mbu they are taking their jobs! When the Americans are reaping the fruits of their greed, they point a finger at Mexicans! But the Baganda saw that one a long time ago! When you point a finger at someone else, you should be awar of the other fingers pointing back at you!

 

Now the NRM is into molesting old men! I know your guys were embarrassed by a body turning up right at Museveni's doorstem right under their noses! Come to think of it right under daddy's nose! Didnt he use to be the head honcho aka Security minister? I wonder what he can tell us about that! But I bet he can't tell us much! If he couldn't tell us much about the Kanungu massacre that killed hundreds right at his doorstep!

 

You know during that Global fund /GAVI circus when the government was pretending to prosecute Muhwezi, Mukula and Kamugisha, they all,led by Muhwezi got bail mbu they were very old men -at the ripe old age of fifty! And the government agreed to the bail without contest and no objection on the basis of "advanced age"!!! I wonder what they think of Grandpa Kajura then or Kivedhinda!!! But Mukaira at 83 has been detained on remand mbu for treason despite the rather dodgy details!

 

Now that lady who ate our money to attend Havard for a phD at the grand cost of 1.5 million USD (2.5 billion Ushs at the time), has been shooting off like a loose cannon again! Mbu only the president can sack her! Even after she is caught with her hand in the till! But I guess after one survives selling invisible dams to a nation, one can survive anything! Mbu she even said some rather unmentionable things about her unmentionables and Uncle Kags!! Me I decided to block my ears as I didnt want to go deaf! The woman can talk -mbu she was never beaten for having a big mouth, or opening it for that matter! When a woman that age starts to kuwemula in public, you know that the world has gone mad! But if we measured the sanity of the world by Ms Kazibwe's mouth, we would all be in an assylum!

 

This government is a joke as is their war on corruption! Instead of starting with themsleves and arresting themselves, they continue to look elsewhere for scapegoats! 25 years in power! 25 years of "fighting corruption" without results! 25 years of looking for the thieves elsewhere but in the NRM where they have become the managers! In this assylum, the loonies rule the roost!

 

I hope you are stocking up on USD! At this rate, the Uganda shilling won't be worth the paper its printed on! And those hungry and angry guys -me they are beginning to worry me!

 

I leave you with this video of hunger in Teso that I found very annoying! Its annoying that in a land with good soils, good climate and two rain seasons, people can live like this! But then again, define visionless!

 

 

As you lay your bed, so shall you lie in it! Give my regards to your aunt Alice and the other yellow girls! She is so having to eat her words!!!

 

The chickens have come home to roost!

 

 

 
