## President Museveni's address to the nation

Monday, May 2, 2011 at 10:33pm 

 
Nina,

My last letter to you was so popular, I have decided to write another one to you. I hope that you are going to share it with your powerful uncles and aunties and let them know that their country needs them to exercise leadership right now. I assume that you still belong to the NRM so I will address you as such.  
   
Mao is playing your people.  
   
They were stupid enough to accept his refusal to apply for bail instead of refusing to accept and letting him go free. The longer he stays in jail, the more his political capital goes up. Remember people love the underdog. A few years ago, Uncle Besi [do you still call him that?], was a relative unknown until your Uncle Kaguta decided to frame him for a rape he did not commit.  
   
Granted the man was poaching his wifes ward but we will not talk about that now. I will allow the ladies in the mothers union to complain about that later. I know many men who have been in his position and others who would not complain. Given it was not the mans morality or fitness to stand for the highest office in the land that was on trial here, we have spent too much time on the issue but I couldnt restrain myself. After all the girl was of age and sound mind and Bill Clinton too got away with it  -poaching you know and got forgiven by his wife and a whole nation.  
   
But I digress, a whole president masterminded a smear campaign that read like a novel. A whole head of CID perjured herself on the basis of orders from above. I hope that she felt suitable compensated for her loss of face and reputation by that posting out of sight to Nairobi. That said given the fact that the same whole president had submitted himself to cross examination in another trial involving the same protagonists in order to prove that there is a "community diagnosis" of AIDS so as to support his accusations of Besigye having AIDS in order to block his 2001 presidentail bid, we shouldnt have been surprised.  
   
Unlike Besigye, Mao lacked battle scars. Imprisonment and oppression has now given him bona fide freedom fighter credentials which he didnt really have before. trust me if you were to conduct a poll today dont be surprised if the NRM was forced into a run off and the longer this goes on, an outright rout.  
   
Today a journalist who filmed Kampala MP Nabila has apparently been arrested and is being held in jail. Do you guys have morons making policy? Dont you have proper PR people? I thought that one of the first sons who was given billions for selling Uganda campaign and more during CHOGM would be useful but then I remembered that famous letter he wrote Mwenda when he was really pissed off, pardon my French. Am surprised that after he wrote that open letter he would be put in charge of any PR venture let alone selling our country but I forget technical know who beats technical know how every day in Uganda.  
   
I did a quick check on FB for social networking sites for journalists associations and quickly found two from Uganda including one for human rights lawyers [Human Rights Network for Journalists in Uganda and Uganda Journalists Association]. I also found the International Federation of Journalists as well as the International Center for Journalists. For addictional measure, I also found a page social networking page for Amnesty International. How long do you think it will take for Ugandan journalists to find them? And how long will it be before Muzeyi Kirunda kivedhinda and Kabakumba come out to embarrass themselves and all of you? Those two really need to be muzzled. And the others like Mirundi and Nyago, need to face a firing squad or better still shoot themselves for all of the damage their arrogance has caused. As for commander Kale and Gilbert the ninja, I have no words. Their acts are short of treasonous. You see in these days of the internet, image is everything. 25 years just suddenly went down the toilet with all of the poisonous sound bites and vidoe clips these men and woman -I forgot Nabakooba, women have gratuitiously given to the world and uncle Kaguta's enemies.  
   
If I still supported Kaguta I would shoot them myself but since Kaguta declared himself life president by stealth, I prefer to watch his discomfiture as he undoes everything he has fought for and worked for without any help. You see I hate life presidents. Uncle Kaguta taught me well. I remember him saying that life presidents were swine and that the problems of Africa were leaders who did not know when to retire and overstayed in power. Can you imagine, he told the old fogey brained dictators at the OAU summit that when all of them were overdue retirement? I remember President Moi chastising him and calling him a young man. But President Moi did heed his advice and retired even though he needed a push to do so. As you know they say okuwangaala kulaba or something like that. I suspect I may have made that one up but who cares, it sounds good. The longer Kaguta stays around, the more he will see history remade. Unfortunately he does not listen to me -I told him to retire while he was still ahead. we and my friends would have been happy to buy him a rocking chair and invite him to our weddings and launching community pit latrines. But he thought all of that was beneath him.  
   
I watched him chastise those poor bishops for daring to say their mind. Can you imagine, he told the men of God to go to hell? What blasphemy. Imagine he called them arrogant while acting all high handed and arrogant. But you know these days arrogant old men who have no issues with killing those who disagree with them no longer impress. Anti abaana benakuzino obamanyi. Kaguta yabakuza bubi. Can you imagine he used to call his elders swine when he was a young man of 40 odd years? Now the young men are calling him all sorts of names I will not repeat here.  
   
I watched that other interview Museveni had in Nairobi yesterday. Oh how unconfortable being compared to Idi Amin? Did you ever think that you would see that ever happen in this life time? I didnt. Oh how hard the mighty have fallen. All at the same time that Uncle Gad is fighting for his life, Uncle Gbabo just gratutiously gave the world free photos of his indignity and Uncle Ben Ali and Uncle Mubarak are now no better than common criminals.  
   
The world is turning upside down. That ka boy embarrassing him on TV and him taking the bait. Thats not the Kaguta I knew. The old Kaguta had international journalists eating out of his hand. He played them with finesse. He charmed them or chastised them with a benign smile. And many a time he virtually got away with murder. But not this time. He is increasingly losing it and getting snappy. I told you the man should retire but you lazy NRM guys refused to stand up to him and tell him he was tired. Now he is going to get whipped and embarrassed by meer children who were running around in diapers or born when he was a president?  
   
Why can't people retire when they are still ahead and avoid such indignity. Mandela is an elder statesman. Mbeki has found himself a new role -as a statesman too. But statesmanship eludes Uncle Kaguta. I know you are still on talking terms with him. Didnt he just praise you not too long ago? Could you whisper to him that the emperors cloths are invisble and his buttocks are waving in the wind and that small children are laughing at him and pointing? Me I wouldnt try after seeing the way he treats his friends. You saw how his goons roughed up Besigye and put him in hospital. And the man is so mean, none of his hospitals are fit enough to provide care for you after his goons are through with you. I hear they are death traps.  
   
You remember that Uncle Kaguta was in charge the last time it was Mugabe's turn to get roasted. But really, Museveni only differs from Mugabe in fancy marketing. Plus Museveni did not dispossess or beat up white people -only Ugandans. In addition Mugabe has no oil. He may hobnob with the chinese but he has no oil to give them. Plus he does not have troops in Sudan or Somalia fighting uncle Sams wars or mercenaries in Iraq allowing Uncle Sam to outsource his wars.  
   
You know today Mao is due to appear in court and already its drama. Not even the rain and floods in Kaguta city Kampala prevented things from getting interesting. You know I use the word interesting for lack of a more suitable word. DP youth are restless. Makerere students are buzzing like bees. I know you never went to Makerere but attended the fancy Nottingham together with Muhoozi but beneath the calm exterior and petty superficiality of Makerere university students lies a violence just ready to erupt at short notice. Mbarara is on fire for walking to work while Rukungiri is on fire for refusing to walk to work and staying in their homes.  
   
All over the internet and on youtube, I can see fire in Nakivubo, Kisekka market, Bwaise, Kasangati, Kasubi, Mulago, Wandegeya, Namasuba, Gayaza, Mbale, Masaka, Gulu, Mbarara, Rukungiri and virtually every major town in Uganda. The men with guns are all over the place. They dont sleep. I wonder how long you will continue to rely on those hungry abused nd poorly paid dogs of war? And now Osama Bin Laden has been put out of action, those other dogs of war outsourced to Iraq and Somalia are about to come home too. I wonder how you are going to keep them under control when they savagely turn upon you as that too is just a matter of time. The lawyers have already gone on strike so there will be no courts to go to I know you people are shortsighted and will use the military court martial but I can guarantee that that will backfire. But you never listen to me. I can guarantee that I will watch you making predictable mistakes and be able to say, I told you so. Not that that makes me happy when my country is being burnt by incompetents who act like they came out of Godfather movie.  
   
Less relevant but given am on a roll here, I may also tell you that I found the Commonwealth Secretariat as well as the website for the next CHOGM in Perth. Together with this I found that Ugandan journalists have at least two social netowrking sites on facebook while the International federation of journalists and others have pages with several hundred thousand fans. together with the lawyers, do you want to bet how long it will take for them to link up with the W2W forum on facebook? I know you will try to block facebook but that too is doomed to fail. I say this because your goons just arrested a journalist who filmed the arrest of MP Nabilah today. Do your guys really follow orders from above or do they make up things in whichever way their villagers minds tell them. I hear that Kayihura has been recruiting from Kisoro and Janets village, Surely he didnt recruit goatherds who do not know the possible repercussions at this stage of arresting a photo journalist. I would have thought that whoever is giving orders from above has enough intelligece not to fall into these so obvious pitfalls.  
   
You know, one thing Kaguta maybe thanked for is demystifying the gun but not in the way that he thought he did. Being a violent man, he believed that the gun could be demystified by people being exposed to it. But he forgot his military strategy. though shall not fight a war on your opponents territory using your opponents weapons. This Walk2Work thing completely disarmed him. If he shoots them he is smoked. If he doesnt he is smoked. And the biggest problem is legitimacy, he has been in power so long that when it comes to people dying for power, it is quite easy to see who is the greedy one for power. Bug guns don't mean anything unless you are stupid enough to use them. And if you are stupid enough to use them, you still lose. Whichever way you look at it, he comes off looking like the bully. But the world and apparently Ugandans too are getting tired of tired blood thirsty power hungry old men which category he now finds himself in.  
   
But I should come back to the mulamwa. I really set out to write to you about how I felt about Uncle Kaguta and Aunty Janets recent speeches on the so called riots. I think they both got it wrong. The people who they call rioters are not actually the ones who were rioting. All of the videos I have seen show clearly that Kaguta's soldiers were on riot and terrorising the population. So much for a professional army.  
   
I really would have loved to deconstruct these two speeches word for word but will restrain myself as I have already written quite a lot. But I will give you my overall impression.  
   
I read the transcripts of both Uncle Kaguta and Aunty Janets. To say that I was unimpressed would be to put it mildly. As a matter of fact, I was quite dissappointed. Museveni's interview in Nairobi as well as his outburst when addressing bishops and religious leaders clearly show that he has lost it and is no longer the old Museveni who had journalists eating out of his lap. At this rate if you guys do not muzzle him, you may find yourselves going down with him.  
   
I instead decided to look back in history to my notes after Museveni's visit to Kasubi last year and killing of three people. He again gave an arrogant address to the nation instead of expressing what I called at the time "humility in the face of sadness and death of Ugandan citizens." I thought at the time that the appropriate response from our leader at the time was sadness and humility. Instead we were treated to what we have come to expect from him -arrogance and threats of crushing, killing and dealing with enemies.  
   
I will here quote myself from the 224th March 2010 "A little humility in the presence of sadness ..... -you could say that again!  
   
3 people are dead in one week -at the hands of the very same people who are supposed to protect them. 40 dead a few months ago again at the hands of the same people! Sadness and humility are the only appropriate response -not arrogance! Anything less is bad manners, "obukoopi"!  
   
Note here that both Museveni and his wife express little or no remorse for the dead rioters or not. Their emphasis is on blame and revenge. There is no self introspection at all. it does not occure to them that they may in some way have something to do with all of this.  
   
On the 23rd of March 2010, I wrote the following;  
   
"It is stupid though to assume that everyone who died at Kasubi deserved to die or was even involved.  
   
Obviously you have not been involved in a riotous situation if you are not aware that in the melee and confusion, standersby can and are often victims!  
   
Museveni's guard and intelligence detail is not well trained if they allowed the president to get himself involved in such a situation!  
   
From a political perspective, you and Museveni can spin all you like!  
   
As Museveni very well knows from his war with Obote, the death of civilians is a vote loser and radicalises the public!  
   
There are no winners from last weeks Kasubi debacle, least of all Museveni and his soldiers! The battle for hearts and minds if Museveni really cares about how he is viewed was lost with a point against Museveni except in the dimmest of minds!"  
   
If you were somehow caught in the wrong place at the wrong time or happened to die, then in the eyes of Museveni and his people you were a rioter. Even in the face of the rampant and videotaped unprofessionalism displayed by the police and army, Museveni has no doubt that everyone jailed is guilty. He goes on to demonstrate his contempt for the rule of law by proposing not for the first time laws to prevent people's constitutional right to bail and the chance to defend themselves. Museveni seems to believe that the courts just like the police under Kayihura and the so called national army as well as the rubber stamp parliament should be his tools to use as he wishes.  
   
On the 23rd March 2010 I again wrote this, "Any death is to be regreted. Thats the bare minimum that is expected of a president whose own guard kills his countries own citizens.  
   
Have you ever in any of Museveni's speeches heard him regret the death of Ugandans at the hand of his soldiers? Or ever take responsibility for anything?  
   
Museveni always passes on the buck to someone else!"  
   
In his most recent speech, Museveni as usual passes the buck and takes no responsibility at all even after people have died.  
   
On the 22nd of March 2010, I wrote that;  
   
""During the 1966 crisis when Obote was quarreling with Mutesa, Obote's army massacred many people. If Mutesa is having a political quarrel with Obote, what does the population have to do with it and why kill them? I do not agree with the proverb that when two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. If the people are rioting you can arrest them and put them in prison. The government has a lot of power to deal with rioting people and means to control crowds without killing them."  
   
By Y. K. Museveni. Speech to elders in Gulu at Acholi Inn, March 12 1986.  
   
"As for rioters, I assume you speak as one who was there?  
   
If three unarmed people were killed, thats 3 people too many!  
   
And no intelligent person walks into an incendiary situation without advance intelligence. If Museveni's men had done their job as they should, there is no reason the president would have walked into such a predictable situation.  
   
Museveni set himself up as being better than Obote. Thats the standard by which he shall forever be judged and thats the standard he has to live upto!  
   
And as you can see from his own words, he does not live upto that standard! Not once, but several times.""  
   
Museveni's bodyguard made the mistake of taking the president into an incendiary situation at Kasubi. He arrogantly defended that decision even after 3 people died at his mens hands. They have since shamelessly claimed that someone in the civilians must have shot and killed those people despite phot and video evidence clearly showing him, his son and their bodyguards and soldiers with guns aimed at unarmed people as well as firing.  
   
The note that really summarises my feelings about Museveni's speeches to the nation both after the september 2009, March 2010 as well as last weekend is this one I wrote on the 22nd March 2010. Please replace Buganda with Uganda and you will see how it applies to the current situation.  
   
************************************  
   
Kasubi March 2010 -when a president shot and killed his own people but still remained defiant!  
   
authored by Ddembe on 22. March 2010 at 18:21  
   
The arrogance!  
   
People are dead at the hands of his men and the command of his son! Instead of mourning for the double tragedy, all he can think of is the tired old militant rhetoric! He seems to believe that it is him and his family who 'fought"! Yet his victory is due to those who laid down their lives for him -many of them Baganda. Almost certainly the majority combattants and non combattants were Baganda!  
   
It is a small thing to show respect to ones hosts for accept it or not, Museveni's governments are guests in Kampala/Buganda! Symbols have a lot of power over men -which is why he is dishing out "medals and honours" Symbols that have stood the test of 800 years have roots in the hearts and minds of people -something the less than 50 year old central government has failed to do and he himself has failed to do in 24 years.  
   
The mistake that Museveni and many of his predecessors make is to act like and assume that they are occupiers!  
   
Whatever popularity that Museveni may have had in Buganda is not really due to his likeability as a person. The more Baganda suffered at the hands of obote's troops, the more recruits and logistical support Obote's enemies got.  
   
The less difference people see between Museveni and his predecessor, the more radicalised the populace becomes.  
   
This fire if arson could have been started by anyone. But Museveni can only blame himself for acting predictably. The death of innocents shall never go unnoticed!  
   
The police and security organisations have become predictable. If they really want to have the upper hand they need to act with less predictability.  
   
Museveni's enemies want exactly the type of images that Museveni is giving them so gratuitiously!! Makerere, Kasubi, Rukiga -all in one week yet we still have a few months to go to the next election!  
   
A more discerning president would have demanded that Kayihura takes one for the team and resigns, apologised for the harm done to mourners advertent or inadvertent, offered compensation to the aggrieved families and lectured the police and security organisations on how to deal with the civilians they are paid to protect!  
   
Someone needs to remind Museveni of the man who said the following words "Therefore the security of Uganda is their right and not a favour bestowed by any regime. No regime has a right to kill any citizen of this country, or to beat any citizen at a roadblock. We make it clear to our soldiers that if they abuse any citizen, the punishment they will receive will teach them a lesson. As for killing people -if you kill a citizen, you yourself will be killed."  
   
That same man said the following during another speech to elders in Gulu at Acholi Inn, March 12 1986 , "During the 1966 crisis when Obote was quarreling with Mutesa, Obote's army massacred many people. If Mutesa is having a political quarrel with Obote, what does the population have to do with it and why kill them? I do not agree with the proverb that when two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. If the people are rioting you can arrest them and put them in prison. The government has a lot of power to deal with rioting people and means to control crowds without killing them.  
   
Both of these were said by Y. K. Museveni but am sure not even he himself would recognise them now!  
   
***********************************  
   
Am sure now you understand why i think uncle Kaguta needs to stop speaking off the cuff, and employ better speech writers with a bit of grey matter between their ears rather than raw arrogance. I am very sure that you and many others in the NRM are cringeing after this speech as well as many recent pronouncements by Nabakooza, Kabakumba, Kintu Nyago, Tamale Mirundi and most of all kirunda Kivedhinda.  
   
I do understand why you have all kept silent and left it to these outsiders to do all of the talking and of course embarrass themselves while you practice plausible deniability.
