## Mahogany, Kalyogs and your people who are never going to get it?


Dear Nina,

I had decided to give you a break while you were celebrating daddy being given the kisambi to hold while Museveni and his family are enjoying the kintu, but your uncles have conspired to make me break my silence! It is obvious that they learn very little -'abaana tebakwaata'!

This government came out of the elections determined to demonstrate to all detractors that they were strong and very popular. The fact that they claimed a significant majority of the vote with a wide margin was of course designed to leave no doubt. One has to wonder though what they have really done to deserve staying in power any longer. And one has to look at the state of services to understand just how many problems Ugana has. For if the people who gave Museveni his majority are the same people who have to travel on his roads or attend his hospitals to die, then God save this country!

After keeping everyone guessing, Museveni finally came out with his new cabinet, a significant number of whom are really recycled old has beens who really need to be put out to pasture. We are well on the way to becoming a laughing stock of the world. What with Ssebagala being proposed as a minister and a minister of Justice who has a string of legal and social problems behind him! Not to mention certified buffons and incompetents as well as thieves! You father really has got his work cut out for him. I really think he has been set up the more I think about this! Quite frankly he no longer has the cojonnes for this. He is compromised.

If Museveni thought that the appointment of some new faces with impressive CV's may be useful, he negated all of that by pandering to opportunism and expedience, blackmail and tribalism as well as that Ugandlish term -arrivalism. Am told reliably that arrivalism is the condition that afflicts those who supposedly fought in a war no one asked them to fight and continue to believe that we are forever beholden to them even when they are corrupt!

Quite frankly after 25 years, no one cares. if they want a medal or a trophy, they should just be given one to hang on their walls. If they wish we could even give them their own military parade together with a brass band to exercise their arthritic legs and vague faculties when they are 100. For 25 years they have had a public holiday all their own as well as the best of this land to use as their personal fiefdom. What else do they want -our grand daughters virginity too?

I laugh when I watch the short sightedness and incompetenece on show. Kayihura tried his bully boy tactics and got cut down to size. Now he is carefull to stay in the background and when he shows his face he is sure to ensure he is smiling and not saying anything he can be quoted on! The last time he tried his bully boy tactics, he ended up embarrassing himself and his boss and the whole government and nearly caused a civil war! The grapevine even has it that an elite police training academy in the UK does not wish to be associated with his new found notoriety. After the experience of the LSE in the fallout from having granted a pHD to a Ghaddafi, no school wants that kind of publicity -who knows Kale may end up in the Hague! 

Old man Kivedhinda proved that there is such a thing as leaving when you are still ahead -the longer you stay, the more likely it is that you will finally stick your own foot in your mouth! Unfortunately, he all but pooed in his nappies on TV egged on by that Kabajungu woman!

A few years ago, Andrew Mwenda with the help of the high court finally put the last nail in the coffin of the stupid anti sedition law that the government has used for years to bully errant journalists with big mouths! Given the number of times the government invoked it and the number of times the government lost, I would have thought that you guys would be tired of humiliating yourselves and continuing to lose over and over. But now you have invoked an even older and even more stupid law to continue your harrassment -the 'criminal libel' law.

I dont know who is advising government but in my humble opinion, he or she should be sacked. The road that you have taken is the road to further humiliation for as usual, you are going to lose. this is one that is made for the high court and one that you are going to lose. If you do doubt me, it would behoove you to read up on the demise of the very same law in the UK after 700 years. One of the reasons it was repealed is just so backward repressive governments like the NRM that cannot use them while blaming the UK for it. For you see this law is based on criminal code inherited from the UK but you guys just dont know when to throw out the bad and stick with the good. This law is useless. It just brings ridicule onto your government. It paints you out as a bully out to dominate every little mosquito with a tank!

On the abolition of sedition Geoffrey Robertson QC said while defending Salman Rushdie in the last sedition case in the UK "This law is still used throughout the Commonwealth by repressive governments to jail their opponents. Its abolition here ensures that those governments can no longer use the excuse that they are merely following British law."

Of the chllenge and repeal of criminal defamation and libel laws on the UK's statutes since 1275 albeit seldom enforced, Agnes Callamard said, "This will send a very strong and clear signal globally that democracies do not have criminal defamation laws." while a Min of Justice spokesman said, "These common law offences are anachronistic and their continuing existence, albeit seldom used, has been cited by other countries as justification for the retention of similar laws, which have been actively used to restrict media freedom" http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2009/oct/25/house-of-lords-libel-laws

The bottomline is once again, you are going to have lots of foreign governments and journalists trying to peep under your skirts for the simple reason that you keep forgetting your panties at home! http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2009/oct/25/house-of-lords-libel-laws

Your chosen target is even more interesting. Poor Timothy is a little bit confused. Who else believes in a seer in this day and age. When he first started writing about his seer I thought it was aliterary gimmick just like this love affair of ours in cyberspace! But then I realised, that the poor guy had lost it and actually did believe himself! It is cruel to beat up on a poor confused man who has lost touch with reality and no longer knows that seers dont exist. That no one can see the future!

I hear mbu it was his story on the bomb blasts that was remembered. I wonder what the trigger was. Did he touch a nerve with his story on the late Col. Muzoora? How else does one understand the timing of his arrest! While we are on the subject, how do you intend to hold him on bail for a charge filed under a law that is already under challenge in a higher court? Quite frankly if you really wished to neutralise his story there are better ways of doing so that leave him looking silly without all of the over reaction that is going to make him come out looking the victim! If you dont know how to do it, you should have asked me. https://ddembe.wordpress.com/2010/07/21/in-timothys-world-everyone-else-is-gullible-and-timothy-is-not/ You will be surprised to know that you are not the only ones that found his story diffiult to believe. But I must say, the more your uncles over react and show themselves up to be bullies, the more his story now starts to ring true!

Lets look at this. You have the mans passport. He does not have the capacity to interfere with any so called investigations that maybe ongoing. The case will not be able to proceed until the courts sort out whether this law should go the same way as the dnosaurs and the anti sedition monstrosity! Even to those who know him, he at times sounds a bit shrill particularly when he declares himself to be the only thinker in Uganda and everyone else an idiot -just like Uncle Kaguta! In that respect they are similar. You have frustrated th man and ensured that in this state of political patronage, his publication is starved of advertising revenue!

Which reminds me, you guys have the carrot but you dont even know how to use it! Museveni said before that in order to create a stable country, Ugandans have got to be pulled up into the middle class. I agree with him but it is obvious he does not really know how to do that -pull Ugandans into the middle class. Its almost two decades since he started saying this but see where we are! Paesants. Unemployed. Charlatans and political tricksters using thier positions to fleece the rest! Reality is that people who have something to lose ie vested interests are not likely to burn the country down. What you saw in the recent riots is people who have very little to lose if it all burns down and unfortuantel in Kaguta's Uganda they are the majority! You guys need to learn to share that animal -the kintu that you want to hypnotise us into believing we belong to whereas we dont! But Ugandans are not so sleepy after all. They can see when they are being sold 'byoya bya nswa'!

If you really want to see an example of how eating and owning a piece of the pie can change what tune a man sings, you dont need to look any further than your own people who have fallen out of things. Once on the street, they sing different tune. Some are still singing -like in the FDC. Your problem is that they are now joining up with the other majority who have never been a part of the kintu! The best example though is Andrew Mwenda to take an example from the journalists world. As they say, a man cannotafford to poo where he eats. When Mwenda was a columnist working for a paycheque, he could afford to be as shrill as he wanted. That was as long as his editor allowed him to. The Monitor editors allowed him to until the Agha Khan took over. And then they were told clearly that his tone hurt the Agha Khans business interests in Uganda. Mwenda was cut lose -and he wrote a bitter resignation. He however managed to pick himself up and now owns a part of the pie -5 billion shillings worth a year! if it burns down, he loses, He will be just another Ugandan who was onec promising. Starting all over again is tough particularly when middle age is approaching. Most men are at their most productive in their mid thirties and by their mid forties opportunity costs are quite high and hungrier young men are snapping at their heels. Mwenda is in the kintu and cannot afford to lose it. He is now one of Fannons compradir bourgeoisie. If one wants him to regain his critical edge, he would have to lose everything and start all over again! Can you believe what would happen if all Ugandans were in the kintu? You guys would be unassailable. People would be living in bliss oblivious of your thieving for things would work. Who cares if you are skimming off if everyone is doing good? everytime you read Mwenda's increasingly convergent opinions, just remember what could have been and all of the missed opportunities therein!

I cannot go without saying something about Muzeyi Doctor porofessa Mahogany! Am sure you now know that I am a seer -there I said it! now you cannot use the criminal libel laws against me without looking like a bully beating up on a gentle soul with a feeble mind! Didnt I tell you that all of your NRM bigwogs including Mahogany and daddy dear were puppets on a string? And that when things started to get tough, they would all be thrown before the oncoming train -just like Ben Ali and the paharoh of Egypt attempted to do with their own cabinets? That this was a family business and Mahogany was the butler with the rest as house staff!

Mahogany is the first one to be thrown before the oncoming train. Not only has he been used and discarded, but he has also been charged in the anti corruption court to ensure that his political future is definitely finished! That last bit clearly points at the moivation here. Unlike Kazibwe who was given our money for a useless pHD at Havard (did she even finish it?), muzeyi Mahogany will not get free money for a pHD. Actually he already has one! And he will not be posted to Paris or London either nor to the UN! He will be humiliated and dragged through the streets like a common thief. I wonder why we distingusih between common thieves and thieves -is there a difference? Muzeyi Mahogany now knows why sheep should never run with wolves!

Interestingly, Mahogany may have presided over the comittees that caused financial loss to Ugandans but am more intrigued by the man who set up the vehicle though which the tax payer got fleeced getting off scott free! Not only does Kuteesa get a free pass and a new portfolio, but he has already been "cleared" by the IGG! I think we may have to re evaluate his role a bit more. As you know from Temangalo, it doesnt really matter to us what the IGG says. There are matters of ethics, propriety and impropriety that need to be probed. For example I am still at a loss as to why Kuteesa would set up and sell a company dealing in cars whose only major contract was supplying cars in a fraudulent contract to the government. I also find it interesting that this company won a bid on dodgy grounds against an established BMW agent in Uganda! Pardon me if I see influence peddling somewhere in here by someone who speculated on the fact that CHOGM would need suppliers for luxury cars -et voila, one can see the "smartness" of the move!

P.S: I hope muzeyi Mahogany does not go the way of Behakanira! 
