## [With you guys in power, Ugandans need to count their knives and forks!](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-with-you-guys-in-power-ugandans-need-to-count-their-knives-and-fo/10150426042737681)

Thursday, December 15, 2011 at 3:52pm ·


Dearest Nina,

Ombuzze ko!

Since they mentioned you in parliament mbu you had your fingers dug deeply into the oil pie, you have been hiding from me!

Naye kati given MASTko has taken the heat away and diverted the attention of the chattering masses, you are free to come out of 'kava'!

LOL!

You know that man Apollo Kakwenzire from Kiruhura made me laugh with his staus update! He must have some lingering nugu for your daddy! Mbu;

"Mbabazi is fighting Bukenya, Kahinda Otafiire is fighting Mbabazi & Kutesa, Jim Muhwezi is fighting Mbabazi, Sekikubo is Fighting Kutesa & Mbabazi, Baryomunsi is fighting Hope Mwesigye, and the cycle continues! The only pillar, anchor, reed that is holding this group together is President Museveni. How's NRM insured against collapse after president Museveni leaves the political scene?"

Museveni is a classical narcissist!

As long as this rat pack are tearing at each other, his own position as the only 'man with a vision' and the only one who can keep things together and the NRM in power remains intact!

He plays all of them like the master that he is! They all fight each other hoping to be noticed by the master and have some crumbs drop their way! Like kids one moment jostling to have their head patted and vicious dogs the next fighting to lead the pack as second lieutinants they fight for the position of favourite child!

The reality is that all of these men except Bukenya are historicals! As historicals, they all have legitimate reasons to believe themselves to be in the queue! But Museveni has held up the queue so they while the time away by turning on each other jostling for the closest position to the door!

In the 25 years that Museveni has been in power, 3 or more of these men could have been top dog! But no, Museveni has to be the top dog!

These men are frustrated! Ambitious men whose progress has been stymied, they watch time go by and their own chances of ever being president of this country passing by!

The reality is that if it were not so important to play benevolent dictator, these men would have long been executed in the name of the Ugandan revolution that never was! Thats what revolutions do. From England in Oliver Cromwells times to Paris when the dauphin and his queen Marie Antoinette became careless with their heads and lost them to Russia in the times of Lenin and Stalin when revolutionaries whose own ambitions became excess baggage to the revolution and they were carted off to the gulags and Siberia to China where various 'cleansings' of the revolution resulted in purges of previously powerful men, these too would have long been eaten up by the revolution!

But to call what happened in Uganda a revolution is a misnomer! What happened in Uganda was a change of guards! A rotation of the cake for while to be from north of the Karuma was once the mark of priviledge or the right to bear arms, those rights now moved to the west! With those rights of course came the right to loot the national coffers with impunity! Furthermore, those who cried for their victims murdered in cold blood, their women raped, their children made orphans also changed! The wheel moved to a different part of the country!

Uganda is cursed! Cursed with the devil of tribalism. So much blood has been spilt in Uganda. So many dead people whose ghosts remain to haunt this country! One wonders how people like museveni sleep at night with the hundreds of thousands of people who are dead in their name!

When one looks at these men, squabbling, fighting each other, one gets a feeling of karma! Truth be said, most of them will never ever get to be president of Uganda! Not to mention the fact that they will have to ride over Janet Kataaha and her son as well as Gen Saleh and a host of other Generals who have a vested interest and have taken out mortgages on this country!

You see Ugandans are a captive nation! People continue in their delusion of freedom! The reality is that the country is captured and owned by a few people. It is called the phenomenon of 'state capture'! They have of course camouflaged themselves so well that most Ugandans believe that they are being held hostage by the presidents tribe, the Banyankole! That of course raises the sceptre of future massacres and reprisals! But the last time I ventured those sides of Rushere and beyond, I did not see any difference compared to other parts of the country! Paesants are paesants and paesants all over Uganda look the same be it from Ankole or elsewhere! Quite frankly while there are plenty of well off Banyankole, I know more Baganda and people from other regions who are as well off if not more well off!

But then this week it was announced in the papers that the state was not captured by Banyankole! No it was owned by Indians who own 80% of the economy! But I have heard it said that the real story behind the wealth of many Indians in Kampala is that they are really 'beards"! Frontmen for the real captors of our state who remain powerful in this state, dismantling it bit by bit and selling it to themselves!!!

These demons have caused so much chaos that the whole country is now in an uproar. All parties are disorganised! While many in the opposition will be happy to watch these men tear at each other, their own huts are burning! In ths week alone, it has become obvious that A4C on FB is just not the vehicle that will led Ugandans to heaven! The old demon of tribalism is thriving there too! Ugandans are their own enemies! UPC are tearing each other apart in a battle that is likely to see Otunnu looking for another job while poor DP appears to have gone to sleep! It has been months since I last saw any comment of any relevance to Uganda's predicament come from president Mao of DP! As for FDC, one wonders these days who runs that place! Not quite sure when i last heard Muntu say anything? Does he still belong to the party?

Now for more interesting news closer to home! i hear that princess from Bunyoro who heckles like a market woman finally fell on her sword, under duress of course! Am sure daddy Museveni will be there to soothe her with a new posting to Paris! After all her only crime was to get caught being that she was an amateur thief among pros! If she were a man caught stealing a chicken, she would have been burnt to death by the mob! And if she were a woman caught stealing matooke from a neighbours garden, she would have been paraded naked through the village with the matooke tied around her neck! But given she is an NRM thief, all sorts of words other than thief are used to try and make it appear right! Some even want to make her out to be a heroine forgetting she really had no choice and resigned through no choice of her own!

Or maybe some oil job or microfinance bank like Muky Kazibwe will be her solace! The news on twitter is so interesting. Some of it is so wild, its hard to believe what they are saying! Mbu she has so many names! Nsomba byuma, Kabasuma, Kabakumpanya , banange! Meanwhile the village boys from her home wrote a petition to the 'fountain of honour' to annoint her once again with a baptism like he did Bukenya, so she can be cleansed and retake her place at the table eating on their behalf! Somethimes I think that we are not ready for democracy! Shouldnt people making decisions have the intellect to understand the dcisions they make? Should the Ugandans who keep revoting this motley crew back into power really be allowed to vote? Thats not elitist -its just a fact!

I keep wondering. Are we now going to see that IGG of your daddy, Baku move to charge Ms Kabakumba with something? Surely, there must be a charge in there that attracts a generous holiday in Luzira or Nakasongola! Now is the time to see how independent Baku is!

Mbu the woman carted a 75 metre mulongooti from UBC to Masindi! There are even some cartoons claiming they were true likenesses of her dragging the mast along!

But one wonders whether giving Kabakumba to the crowd is not like a robber throwing some dollar bills to the crowd to obstruct the chase by the police as people squabble for the bills! How about those other people who have been named in other UBC deals resulting in the loss of all of its assets? Land worth billions handed free to Basajja he of the contract, cancel, compensate scandals? You know its the latest NRM scam in Kampala not to mention the UBC land allocate, sale pocket scandals! Or that woman of mbwa zirume now minister for information and LOL, 'national guidance'! who comes up with these titles!

But I digress! She of the mbwa zirume fame who made up a story to vilify a whole tribe and serve her masters interests also partook of the UBC feast and together with another Muhanga made off with several billion shillings worth of land. All of the other people who received land worth billions free from UBC transferred their interest to thrid parties within days in exchange for billions of shillings! How is this not a scam? Shouldn't all of these people be resigning?

How about those other oil ministers who resigned without resigning? Daddy dear confirmed yesterday that Kutesa is on "leave" and did not resign! Talk about playing the public!

Those young turks are really making noise in parliament! If your daddy and uncle Kaguta do not throw them a bone soon, they are going to eat someone! Right now your daddy dear and two other minsiters are on the menu save for the reprieve of a high court order staying proceedings! I get the feeling that your daddy was the target here as the evidence against him in the oil scandals is the weakest! You kow its an old truism that whe the old bull hangs around too long, the young bulls start to get impatient! Watching the NRM young turks in parliament is like watching a herd of buffalo with the young bulls challenging the alpha male who is now ageing and arthritic!

I had a chat with uncle Kagame yesterday on twitter! He was not very pleased with me! Anti i asked him about the third term project which he said was a matter for Rwandans! If he knew how many battles I have fought for him against some really naive and ignorant western journalists, he would be more polite! Mbu he didnt like me suggesting that he was spoilt like his daddy Uncle Kagu! So touchy! Seriously if he is taking this third term talk seriously, me am giving up on him! Shouldn't it be obvious to everyone by now that this third term talk is destabilising rather than promotes stability? But i must give it to him for confidence! Now when is Uncle Kaguta going to learn how to use modern technology?

Today there were a number of stories in the papers. One shows that Uganda is leading from the bottom in literacy and numeracy on the continent -so much for UPE! The others were photos from red pepper different from their usual trash showing various UPE schools! Quite frankly all NRM party leaders should be forced to take their children an grandchildren to these schools just like they should be forced to get treatment in our hospitals! Seriously those photos were not in the glossy NRM pre election manifesto!

Uganda needs a major reboot! You guys need to work out your gratuities and pack up! Ugandans need to get their country back! But as usual, if you are looking for a hiding place from the angry peasants with pitchforks, you can forever count on me to hide you under my bed!!

  
Filed under: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/nina/) Tagged: [Letter to Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/letter-to-nina/)
