## [You really need to let Ingrid turinawe go free!](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-you-really-need-to-let-ingrid-turinawe-go-free/10150381618517681)

Tuesday, November 22, 2011 at 8:50pm ·


Dear Nina,

I was thinking today about what my grandmother would say about your daddy's and Uncle Kaguta's and all you NRM's predicament! She would probably have said that "Kale mwe eyabalooga yafaa tanaaba!" But a friend suggested that whoever bewitched you guys is still stocking the flames of your downfall and that the more correct expression would be, "eyabaloga tannassa mbugo"!!!

When I read and listen to the news coming out of Pot hole city the capital of Kagutaland everyday, I see people bewitched by their own hubris to believe that they will be in power forever! Unfortunately as recently demonstrated by the Gaddafi clan who are now all dead, captives or fugitives, unless your kingly bloodlines go back to antiquity, new modern day dynasties have lost favour even among the ignorant masses of Africa! You know first the ignorant paesants are convinced that their kings must be Gods -but then they see blood! And realise that kings bleed too! And then they are all clamouring to draw some royal blood!

The curse of prolonged incumbency is catching up with Uncle Kaguta and all of you guys! And like Gaddafi, Mubarak, Ben Ali and Gbabo, you are making mistake after mistake, day after day! Ultimately of course, you will be hightailing it to Kigali and Johanesbourg looking for asylum! I hope you have stocked up on property there! You know these things of being a refugee when you were accustomed to a certain lifestyle paid for by tax payers are not cool! You will have to learn new tricks like balancing a budget, driving tiny little cars, living in a box that passes for a house about the size of your dog kennel, using a washing machine and living without servants!!! Oh, and you will find that people have to work real jobs beating the broom to make ends meet without the advantages of having been born a well connected NRM princess for whom multimillion dollar contracts fall from the sky!

That man commander Kale Kayihura who tried to bring down the NRM government was given another term of office! Didnt I say you guys were bewitched? Doomed and irresistably drawn to your fate like blind mice! the man started a riot almost bringing the city and the government down! He should be cooling his heels in Luzira! Instead, you put him back in charge and see what he is doing! The other day he was shooting people in Luwero! He has littered the city with his idle looking mutineers riding tanks and menacing people with water cannon and tear gas launchers! Mbu I hear they are all gay! Anti they love the colour pink! They have been caught prancing around in heels and bras spraying people with pink coloured dye to make them gay! Quite frankly, the 'kill the gays' bill should be targeting Kayihura's men! They are turning unsuspecting people into gays!

I came across this status update by a one @ortega "If you can't dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with bullshit.". It reminded me of several useless nuisance prosecutions that the NRM is indulging in against several people! To begin with there are all those prosecutions against all those arrested for exercising their right to use their legs to walk to work! Quite frankly, you guys are funny! Everyone to whom I have tried to explain the concept of the state arresting an individual for chosing to leave their car at home and walk to work, is either baffled at such absurdity and stupidity or just simply rolls all over the floor at the sheer buffoonery! And to add insult to injury, the act of repeatedly arresting the same people again to produce them in court on charges that have already been dismissed and which the arresting and prosecuting officer knows are going to be thrown out by the judge beats comedy! Quite frankly, you guys are a boon to comedians! You just keep giving! One simply cannot make up half of the stuff that your guys have done in the last few months since that election you lost so badly despite declaring yourselves winners! You see I warned you even before the election that that yours was going to be a pyrrhic victory and a pyrrhic victory it was! Need I mention that day of humiliation when Museveni's visitors to witness him handing over power to himself for the umpteenth time rode the gauntlet of the mammoth crowd that braved Kayihura's murderous idiots to put on a show that eclipsed the multibillion shillings one at Kololo! Kale you could see the busungu and the nugu with which they beat up and tortured unarmed people!

You guys are amusing! You have a knack for creating heroes and heroines from scratch! Of course I will not repeat the story of Besigye whose publicity the NRM undertook to do free of charge! For every time that you harrass or prosecute him needlessly, his star goes up! Following the election in February, he was down and out until that Kayihura man decided to elevate him to a peoples candidate! For days, you tried to destroy the city and its inhabitants and instead resurrected his waning political credentials! Now you do not even dare arrest him for whatever reason! Even when you do, you do not dare say that you have arrested him and cannot even produce him in court! It was interesting watching you guys try to come up with pseudolegal terms to describe the illegal act of detaining him during Walk to work 2! Mbu simanyi preventive arrest! Mbu ate he has committed no crime. Mbu ate he is under house arrest ate bambi he is not! Which legal schools did your guys go to? No wonder the Auditor General Muwanga found in his report yesterday that the government prosecution is weak and corrupt! i have for years been saying that they were incompetent to prosecute any cases involving more than a chicken thief! But even those fail them repeatedly leading to villagers taking the law into their own hands with mob justice!

Naye kale bantu mwe temuswaala! Even after losing case after case, you continue doing the same things hoping for a different result! Isn't that the height of lunacy! I forget that it is the full moon at present!

A few months ago, you arrested a little old man from Bushenyi and charged him with the murder of colonel Muzoora! Now you have spirited away a little woman called Turinawe mbu for treason! Under your rule, the word terrorism has lost all meaning! It is used for all sorts of stupid things suggesting that you and your security people are incompetent and have no understanding at all of the meaning of the word terrorism nor that of treason! I would love to eavesdrop on the conversations between your security people and foreign spies like say those from the CIA or MOSSAD! I can bet they can barely suppress their laughter! As usual, you are going to lose all of these cases because they are based on lies and incompetence, your investigative capacity as well as prosecutorial capacity and integrity are weak! i can imagine those goatherds trying to outdo each other to see which one of them can come up with the biggest words!

Now back to Ingrid Turinawe! One year ago, no one had ever heard about her until Kayihura's people tried to molest and undress her on the steps of parliament! Kale your guys are greedy! In broad daylight right in front of cameras, they molested the poor woman whose only crime was to hold a peaceful protest! So much for the so called democracy that you supposedly ushered in though I hear some of you were eating sausages in Nairobi and Stockholm when some of us were witnessing fireworks and living through hell! So this Ingrid woman has a ka small small meeting to organise how she and her friends will walk to work and your goons arrest her and hold her in jail without bail on the trumped up charge of treason!

I wonder which dimwit came up with that charge of treason! You guys need to let this ka woman go. The longer you detain her, the more popular she will be and trust me when she comes out, her victory parade will make Bad Blacks look like Biweero!

Banange, akivaamu yakiyita ekyaato! You guys were traitors and rebels just yesterday robbing banks and blowing up buses! Many of you have eaten our money and committed economic sabotage! Need I list the many financial scandals from GAVI to Temangalo to KCC markets to oil? Now you know who is a rebel and who is a traitor! Kanesekereko banange! Banange omubbi nga bamubye!!! You guys wouldn't recognise the rule of law if it were staring you in the face!

Naye banange isn't your daddy tired of fighting people? In luganda they call that okwepatiika ku batakuliiko! Those friends of his set him up to fail and am sure are the ones engineering his downfall. He needs to be one up from that spineless being Mahogany who almost peed his pants until Museveni abused the courts -twice! First for the selective prosecution, and then for making subjudice comments on a matter before the courts then 'withdrawing' the case! If he (daddy dear) really wants to be president of this country, he is going to have to jump out of the queue and form his own! if he is ever brave enough to actually stand up like a man and step out of Kaguta's shadow, then, just maybe people will respect him. Until then he is Museveni's lackey and pawn and continues to be seen as such! I agree with him that there is little or no proof of his having been in the pockets of ENI but you know people, "omubi yapaama mu lumbe"! That ka Temangalo thing will not go away and kind of hangs around like a bad smell! But of course you and I know that his attempted censorship from parliament has nothing to do with eating oil money and more to do with toppling him from the queue! First Bukenya is toppled, then Mbabazi is teetering! Do you start to see a pattern emerging? someone is interfering with the queue!

You know me I do not sugar coat! So I tend to piss off many people pardon my french including yourself dear! I hear your daddy too has that knack of rubbing people up the wrong way! Ngu he is arroganti! Daddy dear is getting shafted and he can do little about it! Of course we know who will "save him" thus clearly demonstrating who is the boss! He could of course resign as the current charges are making it difficult for him to perform his duties and head of government business! That would mark him as a man of honour! Or he could fight just like he did on Temangalo and "win" while losing just like he did with Temangalo! Its all unfair but as you know if you hang out with a condemned man, you are likely to be lynched too!

Interesting things are happening. Some ka girl from DP has just whipped all of the NRM bush Generals in Luwero! If I were you I would see that as an omen! That the 'saviours' and 'liberators' of Luwero have now been toppled in favour of someone who was not there when they were being bitten by mosquitoes or as they claim "fighting"!! Do you see what I see in this? Not even Museveni going to Luwero to campaign on behalf of the NRM candidate made any difference!

P.S: If you wish to buy a ka property in kyeyo land me I have some contacts! For 10% we can work out something! Given when the chips come down, they will be looking for all properties in your name, I could lend you mine for another 10%! You know how those Europeans and American hypocrites who are your friends today will be falling all over themselves to "discover" all of the money, you guys salted away overseas! After the Tony Blairs and the British and American banks got their cuts of the Gaddafi money, they were the first ones to freeze it when he suddenly became a pariah! Just talk to me small small and we shall work out an arrangement! Me you can trust!

I will say this again! Your regime has come to an end! you just have no idea when! Kaguta is tired and he is going. Either you guys retire him or Ugandans will retire him! The options are boundless but Gadafi, Mubarak, Gbabo and Ben Ali have just demonstrated a few. Personally I would prefer the Mbeki way or even the Moi way but a man has got to chose how he would like to die and how he wishes to be remembered! Its not too late for Museveni to negotiate his exit!

While I have your attention, could you please tell the prime minister that akabuga ke kaswaaza! I think that there is merit in the Chinese way of lining up corrupt technocrats against a wall and giving them one bullet each! Could someone please tell them that there is a difference between urban planning and running a cattle kraal! Quite frankly the people who have presided over Kampala's "development" over the last 25 years merit the chinese way!

As for those UMEME people, I think its time to discuss re-nationalisation! Am sure Ugandans with their knack for mismanaging things can do a much better job of mismanaging our electricity sector! At least then the money will stay at home instead of being repatriated to the UK!
