## Banange whats with the panic?

Tuesday, May 17, 2011 at 12:31am


Dear Nina,

I know its that time of the year and all of you guys in the eating circles are jostling each other for a place at the eating table. Its silly season you know. All roads lead to Rwakitura. I hear President Museveni acknowledged your contribution to his success. Does that mean that a large piece of meat is likely to fall your way? Should I sharpen my knife and get ready to eat things? I am sure the usual suspects are busy selling their mothers for a piece of the pie. And this time the pie is bigger too as am told they added some extra slices.

To begin with the Banyoro were offered their very own piece of the pie marked and stamped Bunyoro not t be shared with any non munyoro. This one is ring fenced that oxymoron cined by Museveni to disguise naked tribalism. Its amazing how a government that came into power on antisectarian credentials and even created a few laws against it has so polarized our society that tribalism is worse than when they came in. And they have formalised it by balkanising every dstrict into small non finacially viable districtlets divided along ethnic lines. Do you remember that proposal for ring fencing MP positions in Bunyoro? I wouldn't want to suggest that our president was smoking something so I will instead sugget that his advisors need to be breathalysed and also have toxicology screens for illegal substances. How in hell did they dream that one up? Monday has come upon us and true to form, Museveni's army and police are providing comic relef. They really need to screen the IQ's of their police recruits before inflicting them upon the unsuspecting public. I did expect a circus but this beats buffonery. Mbu they towed Besigye's car without bothering to check the occupants and then realised it was Winnie on arriving at the station. Now one wonders why they towed the car. Is it because afande Tinyefunza suggested that thats what he would have done at Mulago? And the daft idiots took that as an order and the template for any future interactions with Besigye -attach and tow to the police station! Banange! My grandmother, bless her soul, would have said "embuzi zino" and I guarantee that would have been an insult to goats!

So whats up with that? Is Besigye now under house arrest? I can really understand why your guys pee in their pants the moment the guy steps outside his gate. Did you watch that display on Entebbe road when he humiliated and embarrassed poor YKM on the day of his own innauguration? If that was a wedding and YKM was the mugole, he would have banned Besigye from even so much as looking in his direction. Had it been me I too would have put him under house arrest. How could the man defeat the whole Museveni with battle hardened troops, nasty pain causing and death dealing hardware all the time with only one arm and no guns! Kale that is kamanyiro. and the man had only one hand the other bandaged up thanks to Museveni's goons. But on the other hand, sevres Kaguta right. One would have thought he would have got it by now and called off the dogs.

One would have thought that your people were intelligent enough to realise that if you do the same thing again and again and always get the same result, you should not expect a different result the next time. I would have thought that if they were really bright, they would have got it by now. They are either going to have to go hammer and tongs and declare a state of emergency and panda gari or go back to the barracks. Their presence on the streets inflames the situation. The attitude of soldiers to conflict and offence is to give no quarter regrdless of the casualties the more the better. This is a perfect recruiting tool for the opposition as well as any armed insurgence that would be the inevitable result of continuing harrassment. Those youths who were ready and willing to receive kiboko last Thursday on Entebbe road would given a good reason and radicalised enough be willing to rise an army. But why am I telling you this? Didnt the NRM ride on exactly the same discontent to fight their own war?

You know I previously asked you who was in charge of Kampala? I think I should have asked who exactly is in charge of your government! Blunder after blunder, mistake after mistake. Poor understanding of communication and new social networking tools. Poor understanding of the law. Now I hear you have lost it and are going to pass a bill removing the right to bail and effectively the right to the presumption of innocence. You do realise that these are political crimes dont you? Anyone remember detention without trial? Am pretty sure Museveni said it was a bad law and one of the reasons he fought Obotes bad government. Of all the important things that parliament needs to do, you guys think this is the most important? It appears to me like you guys are on aslippery slope to nowhere. Howare you going to combat the inevitable comparisons with Amin and his economic crimes?Talking of symbolism, whats with the choice of the colour pink for the anti walkers cannons? Couldnt your fancy overpaid media and PR people tell you that that would immediately attract the gay lobby? Now you have them all over your backs. I even read one story that says that the protests were progay and the government deliberately chose that colour. Kale bano abazungu bamanyira. They were not even interested in the number of Ugandans killed by this regime.That however will not last very long. I can see moves to documents those killed in the 2009 protests and the 2010 Kasubi killings and now the many killings and the effect of rioting soldiers. These same goons were brought recently and te body count is mounting. This time each of those dead people is going to be documented. And those documents will not go away and will be added to everytime someone dies. I would really watch my step if I were your guys.

Now am not one to track in rumours but am starting to wonder whether there maybe some fire to the smoke that is buzzing around about afande Saleh. Mbu he is no longer with us. What exactly is going on there? At this rate he is going to have to show himself just to dispel the rumours.How could I go without mentioning that venerable old man Nagenda. I grew up reading newspapers. Each time my father came home I greeted him -not for the sake of greeting him but to get the paper pff him. Monitor, Topic, New Vision etc. I grew up reading Nagenda. I loved the way he used prose and played with words ...until he became just another paid hack in his dottage. Granted he occasionally gets some brif flashes of consceince and writes sense but most of the time these days and for the last few years, he writes nauseating sycophantic crap and senile drivel when he is not using the column to fight his personal vendettas with everyone -Wildlife Board, Hospice Ugandan Board, talking up BAT stock, etc! Such sycophantic crap was his last piece in the New Vison. I hope he is well paid he makes me wonder what the price for a soul is for surely his couldnt cost too much.

Now I need to stop laughing and go do a rel job. Naye you people you need to stop offering comic relief.
