## [Letter to Nina -who exactly is running state house right now?](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-who-exactly-is-running-state-house-right-now/10150313305447681)

Wednesday, September 28, 2011 at 12:17am ·


Nina dearest,

I think that we are living in the end times! Ii told you that your daddy was set up and a number of reports today have bolstered that opinion! How does your daddy manage to work with so many idiots with over inflated egos?

To begin with [Tamale Mirundi started off with an interview](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/mirundi-a-fool-who-does-not-know-when-not-to-open-his-mouth/10150313140662681) that quite frankly he should be sacked for! I will not repeat my thoughts about it except to direct you to them!  Mbu increasing sugar prices mean Ugandans can afford sugar! What sort of economics is that?

What is with boasting about shooting people dead? Banange amaalo! You know there was a one Odoi and Opondo, both in Presidents office who shot people too and never saw so much as an inquest! And they were both mouthing off at the time for the man in the hat! Can we assume that the man in the hat condones this violence?

The man admitted he was employed by President Museveni for welfare purposes so he could pay school fees. Nagenda already informed us that he was struggling prior to that and had to borrow money to pay his sons fees at uni but did not pay back! Tamale too admits that the former VP Bukenya was donating 1 million shillings to him per month because he was broke! No wonder the man changes his tune the way Baganda say, "yakyukira mukitti nge embazzi"!!! Am told he used to sing a totally different story before his good fortune -a tune decidedly anti Museveni before he started brown nosing him and becoming more Jewish than the Jews!

Then that other man who once tried to bring down the government Kayihura also joined in! Quite frankly whatever stuff he is smoking this time is more potent than whatever he was smoking the last time he ordered his troops to beat up on and kill unarmed Ugandans protesting against the government! Do you people think you can still afford Kayihura? Not even Tamale's bong can beat this new drug!

The announcements these men make are so childish, its not funny especially considering that they will use them to harrass, arrest and kill people! Mbu A4C is a terrorist organisation training terrorists in Afghanistan! It must be the Americans training them then as they are in charge of that country! Kyokka Kale!!! Not even the malwa boys down in Kisenyi could make this stuff up after downing a whole pot!

This foot and mouth disease that your men are afflicted with will surely bring your government down! Some adolescent over in the media centre is also at it! It must be because the president is away!

The most embarrassing press release aka presidential order has just been let loose on the unsuspecting public! You may believe that I am making this up but it really is for real! To say that it was drafted and written by an adolescent would be an insult to adolescents! I know for certain when I was an adolescent I could never have written anything so embarrassing! That it is issued in the name of the president to me suggests that someone should hang! How dare they bring this country and the office of the president into disrepute?

You my wish to know that in this presidential order, your father is issued orders to bar politicians from being sold sugar by the "NRM" companies! You know it is kind of an oxymoron to talk about NRM companies doing anything in the publics best interests! You am sure have heard about Danze entreprises that NRM company that evaded taxes worth hundreds of billions but still managed to go broke? How about NEC that took over several parastatals years ago? Or better still have you heard about this scam where NRM businessmen are granted licences to operate markets them sacked and rewarded with hundreds of billions from the public coffers -no work done? One man has received more "compensation" for no work done than the money they plan to spend on Mulago hospital 203 billion!

I am sure that some NRM businessmen are already being lined up to sell the public air mbu they will build two hospitals in Kawempe and Makindye by next year to take up the overflow from Mulago which is going to be closed! He he, kanesekere kko muzukulu wa Gabunga! Anyone who knows anything about your government knows that they would be lucky to construct a kiosk and complete it by next year without running into budget overuns, maldesigns, numerous delays etc let alone a hospital! I can bet you any amount you like that those hospitals will not be finished in time! Now while we are talking about hospitals whats with stealing Entebbe hospital from the public?

Now where were we? Ooh! We were talking about your daddy dear being ordered around not even in person but over the internet! The language used and the large case throughout reminds one of troops being shouted at during a military parade! Now using all capitals in a presidential release or order is a no no! Even I knew that as a preteen! Writing in all capitals is the equivalent of shouting! Oh how we are embarrassed by ill bred and ill educated fools everyday given more power than their little brains can cope with!

Mbu your daddy, if the Vice President and Minister of Trade are not at their stations yet as in if the Vice president oversleeps, then your daddy should take over and follow the orders given from Mumbai drafted by an adolescent in the mediacentre!

If I were your daddy, I would sack whoever released that 'presidential order' before the president returns to Kampala!

Before I go, hear the president is having his prostate checked out in India! Isnt't that what 67 year old men do when they go for medical? Why has a two day "private" visit become a week long visit and counting? Is that why he is not going to attend the CHOGM meeting in Perth? Or was he afraid of the pickets and the embarrassment of being called a dictator? You know these events attract all sorts of dissidents! I wouldn't be surprised if some A4C terrorists were there too!

Kati wamma gwe banno katubaveeko! I need to join the army naye, I need a fast track to those major/colonel/Brigadier ranks being given out like the world is going to end!

May I ask why Nalweyiso is still in the army? Shouldn't she have been promoted and retired with full honours for historical reasons as should all of the Bush War Bahima Generals? May I ask why their children are also now becoming Brigadiers while the rest of the country is being left out?

Naye kambuuzeko! Why is it that all of the Generals speak the same language? Surely these 35 year old Brigadiers didn't also fight in the bush! You guys are confusing us and stealing from us while our eyes are open! Is this a Banyankore kweterana army or a Ugandan army or is one not allowed to ask such things?

When is Museveni going to actually build a national army that actually looks like a national army and not a tribal one? http://www.ugandacorrespondent.com/articles/2011/09/the-%E2%80%98ethnic-army%E2%80%99-keeping-museveni-in-power-2/

Could this perchance be Muhoozi's army?
