## The vermin of Africa are rising up!

Monday, August 22, 2011 at 9:25pm  


Dearest Nina,

Banange ndowooza mwe kati musula mukukunadde! Like Ugandans in central Ugandan used to during Obote II -ready to take off at short notice with their muguggu on their heads!!! Are you already packed? I hope Uncle Kaguta's household are already packed! You know you do not have to go with them! Me I will offer you refuge under my bed!!!

Today is a very special day! The king of kings, leader of the revolutionary Jamuhuriya of Libya has been spat out by his people! You know the man after whom your sister is named, and who provided the arms which your guys used to smoke Obote? The same man who has continued to provide support, visiting every year and even declaring that uncle Kaguta should never retire as revolutionaries never retire?

He he eh! Comrade leader Ghadafi has been terminated and retired in the publics best interests -by rats and cockroaches! And you should see the congratulatory messages coming from the rest of the vermin of this world! From the dregs of society in Kampala -congratulations! Ditto from the germs and lice in Syria! I wonder what kind of vermin those people of Malawi are!

One thing you can rest assured of is that this is notice to all those African "leaders" who have turned themselves into life presidents and kings!!! I am waiting eagerly by my al Jazeera TV to see him pulled out of a hole in the ground like a rat. I hope the Libyans will be more civilised than those Americans who brutally decapitated the other "Great leader" Sadam!!! I wonder whether uncle Kaguta is going to send congratulatory messages to the people of Libya who have finally had their own revolution, not the fraudulent revolution of one man and his family they have been sold for 42 years!!!

I notice that Uncle Kaguta has recently been visiting Kigali and South africa! I think your guys used to call that "recce" when you were in the bush! Is that where you guys intend to 'retire"? But I forget, you were never in the bush! Sometimes I forget that not everyone who is eating actually slept in the bush!!! Me and my family we slept in the bush -when Obote's soldiers were marauding! Can you imagine, it was safer to sleep out in the garden and lusuku than to sleep in ones own bed!!! Yet yesterday some idiot charged with nostalgia dared to ask me what I had against Obote!!! I hope that you will not take my side swipe at Obote to mean that I will not be throwing a party when the Jasmine train comes to Kampala! I think its time to go!!! time to kusiba mu ebyanguwa and hit the road before those peasants and rats fueled on social media and hunger come for you guys with pitchforks!

I wonder why of all countries he could exile himself to when the dregs and lumpens come to get him out of state house, he would chose countries that have actually tried to create a reasonable living environment for their people! Why does he not go to Goma? Or juba? Or maybe Somalia? Or just an IDP in Gulu -that would do!!!

You know Europeans and Americans will not take him except to the Hague! Those are fairweather friends who will be the first ones to find evidence of atrocities and crimes against humanity! And they will suddenly "find" billions they have been keeping for him in their bank accounts and real estate which they will freeze! These days its becoming very hard for a former leader to find a retirement home!!! Those days it was as easy as flying to Saudi arabia but they too have filled their quota of dictators!!! At least me I would be ok with him going back to Rwakitura even though am very sure there are others who will not be!!!

There was a group of yellow men and women who claimed Mubarak would never go! When it came to Ghadafi, they wree even more emphatic -Ghadafi was going no where! I wonder what happened to your friends Anika, Rubindi, Tracy, Mugerwa! Will they eat their wonderful words I wonder!!!

My position then and now is that if and when a leader turns his own people into cannon fodder for expressing dissent, then he too becomes a legitimate target and his people automatically get emancipated! The government loses its automatic right to have a monopoly on bearing arms and people are allowed to defend themselves! That is what happened in libya! Ghadafi turned his people into targets for target practice. They got emancipated, hired some big guns and smoked his behind! And in the process, he lost whatever legacy he could ever lay claim too as well as a few of his sons! i really wonder, do dictators really love their sons? Most peoples instinct is to protect their sons while dictators appear to send their own children to premature deaths!

Museveni once said that "... the security of the people of Uganda is their right and not a favour bestowed by any regime. No regime has the right to kill any citizen of this country, or to beat any citizen at a roadblock. We make it clear to our soldiers that if they abuse any citizen, the punishment they will receive will teach them a lesson. As for killing people -- if you kill a citizen, you yourself will be killed." I wonder why he has forgotten these words. I wonder why he did not share them with his friend Ghadafi!!

I wonder who the next African king to bite the dust is going to be! You know they are all determined to go out the same way -like Bin Ali, Mubarak, Gbabo and now Ghadafi! All cling to power in the delusional belief that they were ordained to rule forever and that they have the only vision in the country even when their eyes become rheumy and their sight dim as do their minds! All until they are pulled out of a hole in the ground? I bet when Ghadafi is pulled out of the ground, he will declare himself the King of Libya -just like Sadaam did!

The candidates for next in line have been in power for more tan two decades, may or may not have held sham election, or more, will have come to power through the gun, will have their familiestribes and cronies involved in and deeply embedded in state business, lead corrupt governments, have large numbers of disenchanted unemployed young people with access to cellphones, the internet and social media, beleieve that they and them alone hold the only vision in the land, will have their sons in their armies and cabinet and will have demonstrated no compunctions about shooting their own people to keep themselves in power!

Can you think of such a leader? I can! The jasmine train is approaching! Its weaving. Its scent is wafting ever closer across the desert! and it will dock, come rain or sunshine! it may go to Djobouti, or to Eritrea, to Malawi, or to Zimbabwe but ultimately, it is coming to town!!! Dont ask me which town! Just pack some stuff!

O

Time to activate exit strategies! And just in case your uncles think those two fghter jets will change anything, they need to know that uncle Gad had plenty more of those, plenty more and better gunships, scud missiles and all sorts of ordinance plus loads of money!

Of course the Libyans are going to have to be on the look out for the European fairweather friends out to shaft them too while 'liberating' them of their oil and resources!!! After Iraq, am sure the Libyans know that not everyone who comes to your aid is your friend! Some are their to shaft you too and it becomes exchanging one master for another.

The dregs of the earth salute the rats and cockroaches! The vermin of Africa are saluting themselves ! It is the era of the vermin!!! Walalala, eminya, emesse, amakonkome, ebinyira, envunza. byonna bikutte wansi ne wagulu!

Something that has always been missing from Africa has come to town -the leaders are now afraid of their people as opposed to the situation where the people have always been terrified of their leaders! Do you guys still believe in demystifying the gun?
