## [New cabinet; the NRM is really out of ideas!](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=620617398)

Saturday, May 28, 2011 at 11:20pm


Dear Nina,

I was going to write a very poisonous one as Sherurah calls them but thought better of it. So I have decided that I will not rain on your party and I will stay away from Temangalo! You know if we talk about Temangalo today those people planning to walk to parliament on Monday will be even more angry!!!

I know am not exactly the best friend of the Mbabazi family naye am still waiting for my share of the new loot! The way things are now it appears like if you cannot beat them, join them! I really pity Ugandans who waste their time electing so called members of parliament!

Every five years we are treated to this display of greed by the dishonourable "honourables"! The first order of business in each new parliament is their remuneration. This is in complete disregard of the needs and actual plight of other Ugandans! Can you believe that Kayihura's policemen were out in the sun all day catching flies with their tongues very likely with no lunch for less than 200,000 a month? Money that am sure you have put in your phone as airtime and blown in one day? I know I have been guilty of doing the same -- and did feel guilty! I don't know about you but the idea that I had blown more money on phone calls in a day than a teacher, policeman or soldier, with families that have way more wives and children than I will ever get in this lifetime, takes home a month ....does make me feel guilty? The only consolation is that at least my money does not come from anywhere near the public purse!!!

But I digress. I was talking about these eaters sent by poor Ugandans to parliament to eat on their behalf believing that austerity measures were for ordinary Ugandans but not for them. That applying for a mortgage at 20% interest rate was for ordinary Ugandans but they were too special for that. No, they have to have 50 million upfront interest free and significant tax breaks when everyone else is complaining about hunger and food prices. While people complain about fuel, they have to have theirs free and drive expensive tax payer funded free 4WD's to boot! That they are entitled to brand new cars of a certain value in a country where 90% will never own a car in their lifetime and those others who do will never buy anything other than a "brand new" 1999 model japanese car that should have been headed for destruction. That Ugandans owed them defray costs of their campaigns like anyone asked them to stand! All of this after the country has been in upheaval with many dying as a result! Did these not so honourable men and women go to parliament to represent themselves or to represent their poor suffering voters on whose backs they ride?

At no time is it more obvious than during this daylight robbery carried out in the house of parliament that there is a ruling class in Uganda that appears to believe that they are above the rules to which other Ugandans are subject. And that this ruling classes sense of entitlement is not restricted to the NRM but cuts across the floor of parliament. That this whole charade of elections and so called democracy is just a bunch of selfish people struggling for the national cake while all of the poor suffering Ugandans are mere spectators. At no time is parliament most united than when they are discussing their emoluments! Interestingly the only person who has ever come out to say something sensible about all of this is Museveni himself. In 2006 after similar shenanigans when the dishonourable MP's had him over a barrel for they would not discuss a bill before them until they had disposed of the matter of awarding themselves more obscene allowances, he suggested that it was unethical for parliament to discuss its own remuneration. That a separate committee on needed to deal with the issue separately. I actually agree with that view even though I find little else to agree with him on in his recent appointments.

The ninth parliament has taken off where the eight parliament left off when it comes to fleecing Ugandans! You remember the daylight robbery of awarding themselves 20 million each at the end of the parliament ostensibly to 'monitor government programmes' soon after granting the president 650 billion to finance his own campaign and just before passing that incompetent 'kabaka muzzling bill'? Now they want to award themselves all sorts of allowances even before doing any work at all! Sekandi of course already got his share and is busy clutching his kikapu under his armpit all the way to the bank. That he is going to be another muganda catholic toothless Vice President like his predecessor with little real power who is not really in the succession queue is not without doubt!

Am still not too sure whether daddy's new post is a promotion or a demotion! I dont know how you see it. Its going to be interesting to see how he navigates the minefield that Museveni has set him up with! Trust me I wouldn't want to be the head of government business with such a cabinet! This post requires a no nonsense man or woman with real power and no skeletons and no apologies for being hard nosed. It requires one who is not interested in appeasing parochial interests or covering their own arse pardon my French! One who is beholden to no one and feels no need to be so. One who has the ear and confidence of the big man and is able to carry out his job without interference or undermining! It used to be said that AM was such a man but I doubt he still is. Longevity and prolonged incumbency my dear have a way of undermining a man. Along the way, one becomes fat and soft. More fearful of change. He or she loses the recklessness of youth and tends to be more careful to ensure their own legacy and retirement benefits. Slowly by slowly they become compromised and make more compromises with the devil. Am afraid that daddy has changed from a ruthlessly efficient bureaucrat which is what this job needs to an ageing politician who has to deal with too many compromises over which he does not have real power or control! This is the job he should have been doing 20 years ago when he didn't care what people thought of him, didn't want to be president because the succession question wasn't relevant then, didn't want to ensure his legacy and had a  lot less to lose! plus then the future was more sure. These days anything could happen and he must think about the safety of his children and grandchildren too in a new Ugandan if the worst were to happen!

How do you guys think you are going to get Ssebagala through the appointments committee? I know those guys are most blind when greed becomes part of the equation but really! Nothing surprises me though anymore I guess. All previous parliaments have all acted as rubber stamps for Museveni's appointments and have only ever knocked back two appointments for ambassador! So I guess Ugandans need to get used to the fact that Ssebagala is going to be a minister! You really can't know how much that annoys me! You know for some of us who have for years been going around trying to kick off the association with Idi Amin, it is galling. 30 years after Idi amin, people still ask you where you come from and when you say Uganda -they immediately associate you with Idi amin! Its like some word association game! And you can guess the next question! Did you watch the "Last King of Scotland", they ask! Like I should have! Hate the movie that panders to more stereotypes and the usual "white messiah crap" here to save poor Africans from themselves! Now we are going to have to go through another traumatised 30 years trying to shake off the association with Nasser -and of course his new master to whom he put the service of "his bottom"!

I know you guys thought that Ssebagala was an asset. But that goes to show just how out of touch you are! By the time he came to the NRM to put his "behind" in front or was it in the back of Museveni, he was finished. The street seyas view him as a traitor -one who sold them out. One who promised and failed to deliver -and ultimately sold them out to the highest bidder. He promised them a better city, more jobs and even promised to send them to Japan to clean toilets for dollars! None of that ever happened -not that it was ever going to. Instead he was lining his pockets including getting a free house from this government. If Seya was really so useful, why didn't he go down to the streets and speak to the so called "dregs" of the earth and lumpens and stop the riots? Kale Nagenda can kumanyiira! How could he call Ugandan voters and tax payers names? In any other country he would have been forced to resign for his stupid comments!

The irony in all of this is that when Seya was admitted to Uncle Sams jail over in the big apple for re-education -he even waved a certificate earned during his stay there, his gullible American  lawyers argued successfully before a judge that he was an asset to the Ugandan opposition fighting for multipartism against the Ugandan dictator Museveni! This is the one time I would hope that Museveni would use his famed duplicity to offer him a ministerial position while at the same time undermining him behind the scenes to ensure he is not approved! I would sure hope that the fallback position as with all other political rejects will not be a posting to Paris or New York as our ambassador that much maligned and misused position filled with failed politicians rather than career foreign service officers!

Then some bright spark came up with old man Kajura? Seriously, kajura should have been retired in the public interest ten years ago. Five years ago it was a surprise he was kept in cabinet. Now its a crime for him to be retained. The man is always sleeping! He is too old, too tired! I know that there is oil in Bunyoro and they have to be placated with some window dressing appointments, but do you really have to insult them with has beens who have been around Uganda's political scene for as long as a fossil record? While we are on the subject of Bunyoro, did you guys tell them that the "kabaka muzzling bill" was really targeted at the Omukama  of Bunyoro? Anyone remember Ken Saro Wiwa? Is it a coincidence that Kaguta now wants unconstitutional laws barring bail for a raft of political and economic crimes? I think it would be in the Kingdom of Bunyoro's best interests to read up on Ken Saro Wiwa and understand how such laws could easily be misused by a desparate government willing to stay in power at all costs!

Now I know you needed someone with little regard for the rules to pass your new unconstitutional laws but couldn't you do better than Otafiire? The man is crude and arrogant. Worse still he has had a number of problems in the past that put him in very low standing for such a portfolio. He pulled a gun on an unarmed woman, was involved in a scandal involving coltan or was it copper rivets and timber? He has been known to beat up the offending journalist who attempted to cover him while misbehaving under the influence! But what should really be of note to the women of this country, at least the ones who are not just posturing as feminists, is the fact that he was dragged before the human rights tribunal for being a dead beat dad! And even then he was defiant and contemptuous of the court! Now that makes him a good hatchet man for Museveni but that's not good for the country! Quite frankly I dont see why Makubuya would be replaced by Otafiire!

Now Kategaya -what can I say? Aren't people allowed to retire and just draw a pension? Ditto Moses Ali! Am glad to see that Namirembe Bitamazire was retired and so was Kivedhinda! Can you believe that Namirembe was my mothers teacher!!! That makes her practically old enough to be my grandmother! I even have trouble getting my head around that.

Seriously this stupidity of regional balancing and placating former fighters is something we should leave behind. Its 25 years -whatever you guys believe we owe you, we have paid many times over. In any case those who paid the ultimate sacrifice are the real heroes and they have never been paid. You don't even remember their names! Where is Uganda's wall of heroes who have died in the service of their country? By refusing to retire, you lay yourself open to blackmail. You cannot insist on staying in power while laying off everyone else! Any wonder that no one gets charged and convicted for corruption! I read the names of the people who paid Jim Muhwezi's bail when he was in Luzira -explains why that case died as they say in Ugandan parlance! How do you go after the small fish when you cannot do anything about the big fish? But then how can an illegitimate government prevent itself from getting blackmailed for Museveni is being blackmailed! Why esle does your daddy have to put up with such a large cabinet, larger than the one before which was definitely already bloated.

I have been avoiding reading the new cabinet line up but I finally had to look. Had to take a lot of deep breaths to psyche myself up for what I knew was going to be a great disappointment! And what a disappointment it is! The other day I suggested a very good exit plan for the son of kaguta but you guys never listen to good advice! In my note I proposed as below ;

  * -Avoid duplication like defence and Security
  * -Get rid of state ministers and emphasize technocrats in PS positions while demphasizing political appointees.
  * -Give the Deputy PRIME MINISTERS SOME REAL jobs or scrap the positions.
  * -Get rid of useless ministries like Ethics, Presidency, Karamoja, Bunyoro, Kampala and demote them to departments within local government or other relevant ministry.
  * -Combinie affiliated ministries like Petroleum and Energy
  * -As a matter of fact if Museveni really wanted to get support for his fifth term, he would announce that this is his last term, take charge of reintroducing a bill to parliament to reinstate term limits while writing himself out of any future elections.
  * -Announce smaller government emphasizing efficiency rather than political expedience. The above would give him the political capital and support needed to stand upto disgruntled members of the NRM.
  * -Reform the NRM internally, retire old hats, appoint younger dynamic less sycophantic members.
  * -emphasize skills training for future leaders and here am not talking about the secret cadres mainly from one part of the country who have been the beneficiaries of under the bed presidential scholarships on the basis of unclear criteria.

[https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150194053467681](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150194053467681)

Today I found that I had written an almost identical post following the reshuffle in 2009 when afande Saleh was dropped. [https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150205731177681](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150205731177681) . Come to think of it, I wonder what happened to Salim Saleh. I hear that theres something going down! What with former military officers who are supposed to be in South Africa turning up at their homes in Uganda dead as doornails and the presidents brother failing to turn up for his brothers moment of triumph and laying low for weeks afterward!

Kabakumba bounced back!!! I guess it must be payment for all of that for that deplorable performance she put up in defence of the indefensible! Janet, and Amelia in the same cabinet now I reserve my comments! Am sure Hope is feeling very slighted. But a posting to Paris should be able to solve that! Isnt that where political rejects get posted? Muruuli Mukasa rewarded for shafting the Buganda government in Buruuli. Malinga, Kuteesa, Nasassira -banange!

Nepotism by any name is still nepotism. Museveni employs his relatives in state business -thats called nepotism! Some of them do business with his government without even bothering to go through any established procedure to ensure the left arm is not doing business with the right arm -thats cronyism and nepotism. Some of his tribesmen are over represented in his government and key positions -thats tribalism. Sometimes one wonders which on of the original ten point programme you guys still believe in!

The only joy in this cabinet is that you sacked that toady Atubo. I guess he is now going to discover he is UPC again! And that other Havard graduate of the invisible helicopter fame, Awori too! Talk about blackmail! So much for new fair weather friends! You know just going through this ministers list gives me a migraine! So many ministers of state! All I can think of is how much all of those sycophants are going to cost the taxpayer -and of course the carbon layer! All that bloated gas they are going to be blowing around! As for Abed Bwanika and mukyala Kamya -hi hi!!!

This cabinet really does nothing for me. It is huge and bloated. It panders to tribalism and religious sectarianism! It is inefficient with lots of duplication of duties and ministries. And it rewards sycophancy rather than merit and efficiency! It's just going to be a drain on tax payers while its likely to offer nothing in terms of what Ugandans really want to see -services delivery and an end to corruption. Its full of corrupt people with tainted histories as well as dinosaurs past their use by date! Why do we need all of those Ministers of state instead of investing in technocrats and permanent secretaries? Its testimony to the state of patronage in which Museveni has now become hostage to vested interests!

The biggest crime of all is to try and sneak Ssebagala into cabinet! When John McCain presented Sarah Palin as his running mate and she opened her mouth, I knew there and then that his judgement was impaired! Nothing proves how impaired Museveni's judgement is more than the appointment of Ssebagala as well as his failure to recognise that people really need to see change they can believe in and if he does not give it to them, they will push him aside, violently if necessary and get someone who will!

While I think I can get past Temangalo there are quite a few appointments in this new cabinet that qualify for crimes against citizens of Uganda. After seeing the cabinet that your daddy is going to be presiding over, I kind of pity him! For there is no doubt that he has been set up by Museveni! Am waiting to see how he extricates himself and how much honour he will have left when he is through!

The pity is that after that display and scramble for allowances in parliament, there is nothing to stop these people from continuing to rape this country! Even all of the opposition MP's all have their eye on numero uno, their stomach! Our parliament is a rubber stamp for the executive rather than a check and balance on the excesses of the executive!

Lastly, I know that in your last letter you feigned ignorance of the true meaning of kintu. A friend sent me an inbox after reading your letter. I will post his response verbatim.

"Nina, your definition of "kintu" is just that -- yours. Frankly, I have never heard anyone equate "kintu" to Uganda. This is the first time. I am left to wonder whether you were in denial about your privileged position or whether you were being deliberately naive.

Regardless, to most folks, being in "kintu" means being "in things". It means "eating". It means being at the dinner table, feasting, while the overwhelming majority are expected to be content with the morsels that are thrown their way. The "kintu" is NOT Uganda, rather, it's IN Uganda. It's the bottomless honey pot in which those with the right connections (sometimes tribal and familial) get to dip their paws in.

Most Ugandans do not consider themselves to be in that group, whether you want to believe it or not. Matter of fact, they'd probably laugh at you or even be a little peeved and insulted for even suggesting that they are in the "kintu".

Maybe the Honorable Amama Mbabazi would hope that all those who voted for the party for which he is the Secretary General, fell into things. I can tell you that my parents, who voted for President Museveni, would tell you that they are not in the "kintu". Or better yet, my old grandmother who lives in a little village called Budhatemwa in Kamuli District, a place that seems to be forever stuck in time. She will tell you she's very, much in Uganda, but she's definitely not "in things'. So would all my jigger-infested people in other parts of Busoga.

Let's not kid or delude ourselves, and please spare us the niceties. Whereas there are people without 'connections' who have worked hard and thrived over the course of the last quarter-century, there are many more who have gamed the system and benefited by virtue of their proximity to the centers of power within the NRM government. Abo nyabo, be bali mu kintu. Those are the folks who are in things.

Actually some of them would have done just fine without the extra help of being well-connected, but it doesn't hurt that they are well-connected within the "kintu". I certainly believe that the Hon. Amama Mbabazi (who is smirk in the middle of the "kintu") and who by all accounts is a fine, decent man, would have done just fine by himself and his family without his position of power and influence. He may even make a fine president. But being in 'things' gives you guys more leverage to get things done your way.

So, once again, being in Uganda is not synonymous with being in the "kintu""

P.S: If the Museveni of 1980 had been presented with this new cabinet, he would have had all of them lined up against a wall and shot! So much for a revolution! Museveni was just a change of guards!
