## Why Museveni needs to retire, the NRM needs to die to grow stronger and Besigye, Mao and Otunnu need to talk.

Sunday, May 15, 2011 at 8:34pm


Dear Nina,  
   
Today I chose to write to you a letter that may bring you some comfort to you -not much compfort I must say because it still calls for the ouster of the NRM from power. It was written in response to a submission by one of your NRM chaps to my letter to you on the need to [bring term limits back](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-we-need-term-limits-back/10150193316472681?notif_t=note_comment). I suspect he thought he was coming to your aid given you still havent reaponded to my letters.Kanhertum, I thank you for your submission.  
   
I find it interesting that you read from the same script as many other NRM supporters and operatives who assume that to suggest that Museveni should go is necessarily to support the FDC or to wish for your demise amid chaos.  
   
Paradoxically while I would love to see Museveni go and pray for that everyday -am sure thats not treason, I do not wish to see chaos. And neither do i wish to see you killed or molested or exiled because you are an NRM supporter.  
   
I think that the NRM needs to go. Its bloated, its corrupt, and it has lost sight of whatever ideals it ever professed to have. Its main strength right now is that it controls the countries resources and can utilise them to fund its continuing stranglehold on state power. Essentially it has got enough funds to bribe everybody including those within and without the movement.In addition the independence of the army is questionable as is the continuing involvement of soldiers in parliament. The militarisation of the police has been a disaster and Museveni is out of control. Soon it is going to be annouced that the firt order of business of the 9th parliament will be to pass an unconstitutional law making several political offences non bailable. If ever there was any doubt that Museveni has lost it, this is it.  
   
I do not believe in single party politics. Effectively a strong ruling party and a weak opposition party equals bad government for the opposition unable to perform its role of providing an alternate government is worthless. am all for a powerful duopoly with a strong opposition ready to step in if the ruling party messes up or sleeps at the wheel.Many of these small single issue me too parties such as that one of Bwanika and Betty Kamya really need to die and be absorbed into stronger parties. UPC and DP as we know it are both dying and have been for a long time and its time to bury them and their mebers be co opted into anew party.  
   
Do I think that the opposition has got its problems? Yes. But most of those problems can be attributed to the NRM and Museveni while others are organisational and internal. Museveni has in many ways been a cannibal who has cannibalised everything in order to empower himself and undermine all institutions in Uganda. Some are related to the big egos of the principles in the main 3 parties. The recent elections have already provided enough figures for the pecking order in the opposition. Alone, each one of them is weak. together as just demonstrated in the recent W2W protests, all of them are strong. there is no doubt that at present Besigye is in the lead but there is no way that he is going to do this without the others.  
   
I do not like marriages of convenience. Its for that reason that i do not like the idea of coalitions of the NRM and the opposition. Such a government would be hoodwinking the general public and result in a large expensive government with little dividends except temporary peace.  
   
What is needed is a mature process like the one that formed UPC in the late 50′s. A coming together of different political parties and factions into one powerful and cohesive party. And here am not talking about coalitions and marriages of convenience. Am talking about dissolution of existing parties. The only thing standing in the way of this is the ego's of various individuals in Uganda's opposition. unfortunately the three leaders all happen to have big egos, Mao to a lesser extent than the other two. Besigye has demonstrated himself to be still relevant to the struggle so he cannot be simply and easily pushed aside while Otunnu has shown himself to be a lot less useful than had been anticipated given his impressive CV but this does not mean that he is useless. i will mention Kamya who unfortunately chose to distance herself from the W2W protests. She demonstrated herself to have powerful organisational abilities in the Reform Agenda but her abilities got lost in the horse trading when FDC was formed. Quite frankly apart from th e muslim vote i personally believe she was a much better asset to Besigye than was the late Kiggundu who was tainted by the Greenland scandal. it would be prudent to consider ways of bringing her back.  
   
This unfortunately means that the current formula of regional balancing taking a back seat to merit needs to be reassessed. That is the root of corruption. The horse trading that the NRM does and the blackmain is what has lead to the balooning of government and subnational administrative units. We need to bring back merit politics. Ugandans have been si distanced from government except during elections that the only way we have confidence that some gravy may fall our way is if we have a son of the soil from our very own village in government. So each village wants its own ministry and its own district.  
   
Besigye is in his thrid term of office. He is not eligible to stand again as party president. As a matter of fact one could say that having stood three times he should go away and get a microfinance loan and rear ducks and goats like the rest of us. Fortunately or unfortunately, Museveni just delivered him a massive shot of political viagra. He has invested blood and pain into showing Ugandans that museveni can be defied. He has contributed to demystifying the gun. All those tough soldiers that Museveni put out on the street may hold instruments of death and pain, but they are powerless in the face of a population that has lost their fear. this is true people power. So far the temptation to take up arms and fight it out has been avoided which is good but one wonders for how much longer.  
   
The NRM is in need of serious reform if it wishes to remain relevant to the future of Uganda. It is too bloated. Too corrupt. Too accomodative of mediocrity. Too behoden to one man and his family. in its current form it is not likely to survive beyond Museveni. Furthermore should it lose power, it is likely to end up in oblivion almost like the UPC.  
   
That too is not good for Uganda. If Besigye ever comes into power, the very problems that bedevil the NRM and Museveni and contribute to their prolonged incubence will be the very same problems he will face. As a matter of fact it should not be left upto Besigye or any other politician to decide how long he can rule. Museveni has just put an end to the experiment and flirtation with unlimited terms and proven that he was right when he said that the problem of Africa was rulers who did not want to live power. Besigye too will need term limits to control him. He may wish to stand down after his term but why should we leave it to him to decide? He is only a man and men are weak.  
   
The point here is that we need structures that are independent of the predidency and the executive. Parties too need structures by which they can control their heads just like the ANC was able to ask Mbeki to step down. The NRM has no such structure by which to hold Museveni accountable. they effectively all become lackeys working to his whim and benefit. Thats a recipe for impunity and is a bad combination when comined with a huge ego. Besigye's ego is an asset to the opposition now but it will be a liability when he is president. Ditto Otunnu's ego which is even bigger than Besigye's. So they all need to be in a party that has independent structures that have the power to limit their powers and censor them when they are out of line. So term limits are required as  are an independent judiciary, legislature etc. Term durations shouldnt be tinkered with either. the electoral commisssion needs to be independent and accountable. and the opposition needs to be institutionalised and strong too. thats the only way we can have stable politics.  
   
I know that the west likes to deal with strongmen so they dont have to go through the red tape of having to deal with a country that has laws. But the interests of the west are not necessarily our interests and they will need to adjust and accept that too.If out children are going to die in Somalia, we would like to be consulted and discuss it in parliament because Uganda is not at war with somalia so the president does not have to exercise emergency powers. If we are going to buy futuristic jets, the defence comittees should be briefed by suitably qualified experts given the commitment of the countrs resources and defences. This was not an emergency purchase that required a supplementary budget. Oil contracts should be transparent as should any waivers of capital gains tax such as Tullow and Herdsman sought to steal from the Ugandan taxpayer. We should have no obligation to honour the contracts of companies that believe that there only responsibility is to their foreign shareholders when its our resources they are exploiting. If they do not have corporate responsibility and ethics they should not be doing business in uganda.  
   
In summary, Museveni and the NRM need an exit plan for they are in trouble. The opposition needs to take this opportunity to create a powerful new entity that is organised from the grassroots to the national level and offers more than simplistic rhetoric or capitalises on agende. To begin with they should have polciy and position statements from suitably qualified experts using verifiable figures on Museveni's recent promouncements on the solutions to fuel and food prices. The budget is coming up so this year i expect to hear a well reasoned response to the governments budget again using verifable figures. A position statement on our air defence capabilities and needs and critique of the governments recent purchase of fighter jets is overdue as is a well reasoned our foreign affaors obligations including our involvement in Somalia as well as our relationships with Rwanda, Congo, Sudan and the East African union. A policy and startegy statement on corruption and their alternate plans for manageing it once in power is long overdue too. There is no advantage to Ugandans of having Besigye in power without an opposition or a week opposition. Destroying the NRM completely is therefore not in the best interests of Ugandans. Public confidence in the police and judiciary will need to be reinstated.  
   
A Besigye, Mao or Otunnu with absolute power and a weak opposition will too become a dictator. So we need to work on the institutions to control the power of the presidency now both within the parties as well as within government.P.S I wouldn't worry too much about Besigye having served three terms if I were you. He is serving his third term as party president but the FDC constitution does not actually bar him from being elected their presidential candidate again. Having done him a favour and resurrected his political career, you only have yourselves to blame.
