## [When are you guys going to go home?](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/letter-to-nina-when-are-you-guys-going-to-go-home/10150987067612681)

Friday, August 17, 2012 at 10:09pm ·


My Dear Nina,

Today is my birthday -the birthday i was not supposed to have, but here I am all fine save for some mending broken bones! All of course thanks to the country that your uncle Kaguta, daddy PM and all the cult worshippers of the one and only visionary have created! A country where security of person is just a word, a myth and a lullaby to lull the people into keeping him in power in perpetuity!

i have had the most wonderful messages wishing me a happy birthday and probably for the first time ever in my life, i am glad to be celebrating it. Normally I do not really care and I have been known to forget my own birthday!

But just like that time a few weeks ago when some idiot tried to snuff my life out with a crowbar, you my dear sweetheart seem to be the last person to notice that i have a birthday to celebrate and a reason to be happy that am alive.

Even 2 and a half year old Sanyu was happy for me. In the morning she sang Happy birthday dear daddy, and she helped me cut a mouth watering chocolate cake not to mention handing me a nice birthday present. nevermind her little eyes were virtually popping out at the very prospect of eating birthday cake! But this time you will not be able to say, you did not know!

In a few weeks Ugandans in uganda and all over the world will be celebrating Uganda at 50! I have been wracking my brains for days and weeks trying to find a reason to celebrate! i am afraid i just cannot find a good reason to celebrate Uganda at 50!

You know for more than half of that 50 years your daddy and his friend have been dragging us to hell in a basket. We are a laughing stock -to be pitied and ridiculed! the other day a Prime Minister who dragged his country to the brink of disaster said that spain was not Uganda. never mind he was at the same time holding his hand out for handouts -like Uganda but of course not from Uganda!

Quite frankly it was only a few days ago at the end of the olympics that ugandans finally found some reason to be happy in their 50 year old existence as a country but not a nation! kiprotich hereto virtually unknown pushed past the Kenyans powered no doubt by posho and beans and pipped them for the marathon!

this of course was no thanks to the ugandan government which in addition to denying him facilitation and training facilities found the money to fly pot bellied officials and a half sleepy vice President to london but not to facilitate the athletes!

i can bet that no one in the NRM cabinet knew his name least of all the sports minister who claimed that the athletes were very well facilitated nevermind being contracdicted by the athletes themselves! just a paltry 4 athletes and we couldnt even look after them.

But as one would predict, the malindirizzi were ready to benefit from the success of Kiprotich! when i talk about he malindirizi am not referring the the karooli's and sekanyolya's around the cities garbage dumps! Am referring to the NRM leadership. i will not even mention the corporate vultures like tullow who donated a paltry 10,000 USD despite receiving the country's oil resources virtually free! did they even pay our taxes yet? as far as i remeber they owed us a lot more than 10k!

Poor Kiprotich was waylaid at entebbe, kidnapped and driven to state house so that the visonary could bask in his glory and get rejuvenated! i hear he initially thought that kiprotich was one of these opposition politicians who have made a habit of thumping his party at each and every by election! poor guy kati assula akukunadde anti buli akakuba wabweru! i wonder why people torture themselves so! one would have thought that he would have learned from his friend Gaddafi the most recent victim of his own hubris! Banange kale mwesiba kubatabagaala! abantu babkoowa dda! siba munno nyo, i would not be able to tell you what others are afraid of telling you! Abantu mwesibye my governmenent like you were born there! Mudeeyo ewamwe!

If i were kiprotich, i would have got off the plane in Nairobi and gone to my village via Busia! Ndabbe nyabula bwemunoonyaayo through the non existent roads! but the poor guy was forced to endure a breakfast and a lengthy speech -the same one ugandans have heard for the last 26 years of we have not done anything apart from enrich ourselves because we fought! no roads, no sports facilities, no schools apart from bufumbo college and bonna bakoone bagende bakube amatafali oba bateme empuuta -oba obutayimbwa! All i could think of was 'laba bwebamwesipaata nga gyobela nti bali balya naye!

The most nauseating and mindless of gestures of course was the 'promotion'! And then the paltry 80,000 dollars to a man who in one instant brought more free publicity for the country than the million dollars given to Glenevin for "PR", nor the other million given to uncle Kaguta's son in law rwabwogo for the fated "gifted by nature" campaign! the name of the campaign should have been "Gifted by nature but jinxed by the NRM". At the very least, he is worth 2 million dollars from this government! 80,000 is less than the cost of that merc your daddy bought the minute he became PM nevermind he has feasted on the best this land can offer for almost 3 decades! and i don'[t remember him ever garnering equal support and goodwill not to mention publicity for this country!

Now about those junk helicopters that continue to haunt the country! I would really love to know if they were fitted with appropriate navigation and communication equipment or whether whoever signed the contract left them out!

just when we had a ka little goo news to celebrate you guys spoilt it for us! 3 helicopter gunships ( an millions of dollars down) as well as 10 men so far and no one is taking the fall. instead afande saleh has been appointed to look into the issue! 4 gunchips, one crashlanded, 3 destroyed and men killed -what shame. The Kenyans are having an absolute ball! i could direct you to a few websites where they are wondering what kind of imbeciles we are to be downed even before Al Shabaab fire one rocket! is there any wonder that Kony continues to mock us? with enemies like ourselves, Al Shabaab can rejoice as we are kiloing ourselves with incompetence even before getting to the battlefield!

With all due respect, his brother having forgiven him or not, didnt he take 800,000 USD in enjawulo from the original helicopter gunship deal? And shouldnt that disqualify him from having any part to play in the inquiry if only to give it some modicum of respectability? I can guarantee that with afande Saleh in charge, any report will be ignored by the public as a cover up however professional it maybe! but then again, judging by 26 years of the NRM in power, we can assume there will be no report! And if there is, we can trust the NRM to undermine it themselves using the constitutional court etc! as they have done several times in the past! need i mention the GAVI scandal or the oil corruption scandal where the culprits never even got to have their day in court having invalidated the very instrument that supposedly had proof of malfaesance!

Now you my love i can see are getting more and more frustrated. Anti daddy dear appears to be in the line of sight of the Capo! I undertsand that daddy dear thought that the cosa nostra was a democratic institution where the boss got to retire and someone else from a different family got to take over! munange hate to break it to you naye uncle kaguta tayina gyalaga! the man owns the state, its resources and its army. he has a Queen and a Prince in waiting all trained for the express purpose of offering an alternate king. and now the noose is tightening on the PM for daring to do what besigye and bukenya did before him -covet the throne! this is high treason in a kingdom my friend! Kakati daddy is going to be rendered useless in both the NRM secretariat his refusal to step down from the position of SG notwithstanding! with a deputy who reports directly to the oracle, in both the SG's office as well as the OPM, it is going to be fun watching this new game! Nasasira of course is not going to play second fiddle -I can see Bahima/Bairu/Bakiga politics playing itself out here! slowly by slowly, like Bukenya before him, the PM is being encircled and being made redundant not to mention being blamed in public by the visionary himself for not being efficient!

On another note, old man bidandi now wants the taxpayer to pay for his self initiated referral to Taiwan for medical treatment without even bothering to go through the queue. he is appealing direct to the oracle! Banange the politics of patronage! the man who has been in government for decades and served to entrench the movement and its leader now thinks that Ugandans owe him after maintaining him in luxury for decades! this sense of entitlement among Ugandan politicians is annoying! you guys neglect Uganda's health system at your own peril no matter how much money you make nor power you have!

Kakati nno munange when the Kaguta's kick you out before the paesants come along with pitchforks you could end up like Mzee bidandi begging to be let back into the tent of resources and patronage!

I have prepared for that day munange -as I have sid before nze nja kukweeka wansi w'omufaliiso!

Beera bulungi!

Drew

P.S: I think I just may hang around a long while just so that i can piss you guys off a little more till you retire from the countries politics and go back to look after your cows and goats!

  
Filed under: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/nina/) Tagged: [Letter to Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/letter-to-nina/)
