## The rats are burning down the house!

Monday, September 5, 2011 at 8:59am


Dear Nina,

Munange I had to wake you up to share in this cinema! My grandmother would say of the situation between Nagenda and his insubordinate subordinate, that "obukokolo bugeyaana"! The clowns are continuing to entertain and Iam buying me a whole popcorn making machine!

Tamale is quoted as saying that, "Mr Tamale says the senior spin doctor has fallen out of favour; is rarely asked to give opinion on any matter and his choice of a newspaper he once tormented to criticise the Head of State shows he is a weakened man without access to the President."Surely this upgrades me from a seer to a prophet! As in the past, I would not be surprised if suddenly Nagenda's bank forecloses on an outstanding loan. Standard modus operandi!

Tamale admits that he is not really a full bottle but he comes back with salvo! I need to check, is Uncle Museveni really at home? The house staff appear to be pulling the house down and I must admit we are all entertained! Like Kayihura who went on riot with less entertaining results and like the rest of the country, the State House staff appear to be on strike!

As Nagenda said, the emperor is naked -ouch! I have been saying that for a long time but boy is it good to finally see an emperor's counselor confirm it after years of him telling the emperor that his was the finest cloth in the world? If this was Ssekabaka Mwanga, some pages would be burnt at the stake!

Only a few weeks ago, Nagenda called Museveni's critics the scum of the earth and dregs of the earth! But now he has joined them and a glorified scum of the earth and former subordinate, Tamale is reading him the riot act for 'being frustrated"! Mbu he was broke and was given a job to help him pay school fees! Kyokka banange! Tebagwa! Abaana abobukadde yali abazalira ani?

Tamale reveals what we already knew -that this government and president is really taking Ugandans for a ride! Quote, "Spokesman Tamale Mirundi, whom Mr Nagenda said neither had the right upbringing nor fine brain to speak for the President, called this newspaper yesterday to say Mr Nagenda's appointment was to help him get some perks for his "welfare purpose". "What is the seniority in advising a President? Senior or junior adviser, you are all the same. Appointment as a presidential adviser is political for welfare purposes," he said.

According to Mr Tamale, the President in most cases appoints people his advisers when he is told of their financial difficulties, including inability to pay children's school fees."

Seriously, does the job description of "presidential advisor" include needing welfare? Isn't this waste of taxpayer money on armies of 'advisors' who do nothing to earn their keep? Is it not an insult to Ugandans that the president hands out perks and huge salaries to cronies for "welfare purposes"? Of course the fact that Tamale Mirundi says this is proof of his inferior intellectual acumen! This is a sackable offence! Does he clear anything that he says or is he allowed to just mouth off "kigere kimbadde" like the village soccer teams? Does he even understand what he just said?

Tamale adds further of his boss that, "Coming out in the media means you are a reject. It's like a jilted lover making noise in public about her husband's evils but said nothing bad during good times." Of course we know that Nagenda is frustrated. I await Nagenda's response to this slight on his honour. I still do wonder when Nagenda started to see things the way all of us see them!

Mbu, ""That I am arrogant is true and I know it because I was not inducted into Baganda social norms. I was brought up independently and I am a liberal." says Tamale! Now did Tamale grow up on Mars? How can he insult Baganda by implying that those "not brought up on Baganda social norms" whoever those maybe, are rude and abnoxious like himself? His use of the words independent and liberal are of course incorrect and certainly cannot be used to refer to him just like his use of the word 'intellectual' to refer to himself! As they say, kakyama mameera!

This exchange has just started. Am waiting for the next installment from Nagenda and various other apparatchiks!!!
