## Lunacy is when you keep doing the same thing and expecting a different result!

[Response to where did we go wrong?](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=483879117680)  


Saturday, December 18, 2010 at 1:17am

So far I have stayed out of this discussion because of work commitments but mostly because any discussion of our past leaders is almost always divisive and ends acrimoniously with personal attacks and insults. Our leaders both past and present have almost all been divisive. Any discussion of their contributions to our acrimonious and conflict ridden history is always ridden by subjectivity and anecdotal evidence.

I can see some have been directed towards Godfrey whose sentiments and opinions on many fronts both regarding revisionists of our history as well as the role of the economy I agree with.

I will however wade in with my own opinions and hopefully balanced opinion despite the fact that I will draw from my own personal experiences as well as those of my family.

For the purposes of this discussion, I will ignore Lule, Muwanga, Binaisa and Muteesa except to say that virtually all of Uganda's leaders except Muteesa came to power through the gun either directly or indirectly.

I do not believe in regime change as an end in and of itself. However i still maintain that Museveni has outlived his usefulness and should go. If the NRM does not have the internal structures to replace him then they too should be confined to the dust bins of our history. The NRM will only ever come of age when they can prove that the party is more than Museveni and can survive beyond Museveni. Beyond the test of whether they are all pawns in one mans dream for self aggrandisement and power is the test of succession and party structures. Are they strong enough? Do they have strong enough party structures to prevent Museveni annointing his son as his successor? So far there is very little evidence that the NRM is strong enough to replace Museveni or the he is subject to party structures.

DP has demonstrated maturity in being able to move beyond the Ganda catholic clique that had become synonymous with DP. Obviously in the short term, thay have paid a price but in the long term there can only be benefit. Neither Ssebaana's, Kiwanuka's nor Ssemogerere's children have monopolised the party's future in the way that Obote's family controlled UPC until recently when they were booted out, or the way the Odinga's, Moi's and Kenyatta's princelings control Kenya's destiny.

UPC was a party with a history that got eclipsed in one mans dream and megalomania. To hear the story told, one could believe that there were no others that came before Obote and that he founded the party from scratch. I believe that Obote excelled at manipulation and manipulated all of those around him with the sole aim of keeping himself in power.

It has been said that Museveni is the longest serving ruler that Uganda has had followed by Amin. I wish to correct that impressionas obote ruled uganda initially as prime minister in 1962 until Uganda's first coup in 1966 when he abrogated the constitution, single handedly rewrote it (with binaisa who boasted they wrote it overnight), used the army to overthrow Uganda's first constitutional head of state thus introducing us to the militarisation of our politics, unilaterally declared a republic without recourse to parliament or referendum, declared a state of emergency, systematically undermined parliament, introduced detention without trial and introduced the nation to the politics of state oppression by their leaders through the security services. The only time that Obote was ever directly subjected to elections in his 16 year rule of Uganda was in the disputed 1980 election that led to the NRM war.

He subsequently ruled Uganda till 1971 when he was booted out by his mastiff Idi Amin whom he had promoted against all advice and common sense in the hope that being illiterate, he would be a pawn in his power game. Thats until Idi Amin decided to go into business for himself and overthrew him with the help of British and Israeli intelligence. Both the Israeli's and the British later turned against Idi Amin after he expelled Britains non landed citizens (Ugandan Asians who held British passports) from Uganda, a plan that was actually not his but was already a part of Obote's indigenisation and nationalisation policy of the late 60′s

He subsequently ruled for another 5 years following the overthrow of Idi Amin in what is in my opinion one of the darkest periods of Uganda even eclipsing that of Idi Amin before being booted out by yet another of his mastiffs -the Okellos (and Otunnu) who were themselves booted out by Museveni!

Obote's personality and lack of democratic credentials is further characterised by the hold he had on his party the UPC which he run virtually like personal property and even bequeathed to his widow with the plan of passing on to his son Jimmy. This plan was finally thwarted by the same people who booted him from power in 1985 ie Otunnu. All in all his control of the party and its structures spanned 51 years a full half century during which time he was not exposed to elections. He also continues to posthumously control the only property the party owned Ugandan house (though I believe that state funds were used in its construction) through the Apollo Milton Obote foundation controlled by his cousin Sam Odaka and his widow.

This problem of parties built around personalities rather than party structures continues to dog us todate. So Museveni, his wife and almost certainly his son and brother as well as various inlaws such as Kutesa control the NRM, the Obote family until recently controlled UPC, DP was for almost 3 decades synonymous with Ssemogerere, CP equals Lukyamuzi and FDC equals Besigye! While these various personalities indulge in dangerous power plays we all pay the price for their personal aspirations for themselves and their offspring.

In a recent conversation a friend of mine who came across the stranglehold (and arrogance) that Asians have over the economies of our neighbours in the East african community said to me that much as Amin was a stain on Uganda, he may have done Uganda a favour in getting rid of Asians and breaking their control over our economy. The surprise is that his father was one of the prominent Ugandans killed by Idi Amin. This is something I have come across before and certainly have been reminded of by the arrogance of Kenyan Asian shopkeepers and attitude towards black people, my interaction with Kenyan members of a rotaract club (membership of rotary clubs is by personal sponsorship by a club member so this club in a black African country can only be pure Asian if the Asian members do not sponsor any Black Kenyans for club sponsorship) from Mombasa that was all asian or encounters with clearly racist white Zimbabweans in Zimbabwe as well as south Africa who clearly control the economy where only 7% of listed cmpanies in the Jo'burg stock exchange are owned by black south Africans. In that respect, Amin empowered Ugandans and broke them from the stereotype of being Asians 'boyees' and servants! I must admit that I do not entirely subscribe to the method even though I fully understand what informs these sentiments about a minority that despises you yet controls your economy!

Another example about Idi Amin that i got from my parents is the effect that Idi Amin had on the self image and pride of Ugandan muslims. Apparently Al Hajji Abdul Nsereko who was a newsreader for most of the years we grew up first started reading news in Amins time after Amin demanded that Radio Uganda and the TV had to employ a muslim. At the time we grew up, he had an affected American accent but in the early seventies he spoke like 'seya'! Apparently his English was atrocious. This was apparently Amins own form of affirmative action. It cannot be said today that muslims who were synonymous with illiteracy lag far behind other Ugandans in education or wealth.

I have also quoted from my own childhood the episode when as a kindegarten pupil, I abused Idi Amin to his face and he simply smiled and waved at me! I know for a fact that had a child done that during Obote II, both the child and his family would have been massacred! I also do not remember seeing armed soldiers on the street until 1979. In Amins Uganda uniformed sldiers were confined to the barracks and my only memory of uniformed soldiers were those in military landrovers. this is not to say that Amins soldiers did not kill people. While Amin controlled his mastiffs, Obote had very little control over his own who were his nevertheless! One of his famous quotes in parliament to Ssemogerere then leader of the opposition was "Where are your Generals?", in reference to the personal allegiance his army held to him!

Furthermore, my family's escape from Kampala during the fall of Kampala in 1979 was in a bus commandeered by an army commander in Amins army to transport him and his wounded men to Arua. My father paid them to transport us to Luwero wehere we stayed on a ranch owned by relatives until Kampala was safe and my father came for us. Despite the fact that our group comprised of women and children, they were perfect gentlemen and did not molest any of the women or teenage girls. On the way they even picked up a young girl and boy who were walking home several hundred miles and dropped them off without demanding any money. Many months later, my mother met the bus driver in Kampala. The soldiers once they got to Arua, paid him and released him to return to his family in Kampala!

But I also do know that in Amins Uganda, a parent was stuffed into a car boot in front of his children at my school Nakasero. I used to walk past State Research Bureau every day. I was classmates with Idi Amins children one of whom cried for a friends toy, a birthday present. The teacher returned it to the rightful owner and was later that day taken away in the boot of a car when Idi Amins daughter in an upper class ordered the bodyguards to do so!!! Can you imagine a primary school child having that much power?

We were later to be exposed to the power of mere children during Obote II when children could get one killed, carried weapons to school and even boasted of having killed people! Teachers were terrified of these children who were considered above school rules and untouchable.

Despite being a child I was aware of the fact that particularly in the latter part of amins reign, the shops were empty, that Kampala last had a proper 'supermarket' in the early part of my childhood (at Drapers building above the Taxi park), that we grew up virtually not knowing what sausages, apples or chocolate was save when a parent came back from overseas. That sugar and salt were 'magendo' commodities that your parents bought from the backdoor of hajji's shop and so was petrol! Its therefore illusionary for people to claim that the economy was good during Amins time. I do however remember that whenever I needed medical care, I was a VIP and received private treatment in Mulago's private wing because I was 'entitled' by virtue of both my parents having been civil servants. The only 'supermarket' in Obote II's time was Hajji "Seeya' Nasser Ssebagala's shop on UCB arcade that was no better than a grocery store but was really a front for illegal currency dealings. I know this for a fact because I was sold illegal travellers cheques there in the 90′s!

Despite the fact that I can see this good side to Idi Amin and his soldiers, I cannot bring myeslf to see anything good about Obote or his rule. The truth be said Obote introduced us to the mess we are in. A classmate who was the younger brother of an army commander regaled us with stories of how he killed people, threw a grenade at a group, commandeered cars and got them past roadblocks manned by his village mates who just waved him on once he introduced himself. Needless to say, he was the only one of my classmates who actually owned a car in O-level. The same guy once threatened us that if the "wayekera came, he would 'soot' all of 'zeez' waganda". When the wayekera did finally come, we are the same poeple that shielded him together with other children of high ranking army commanders some of whom were notoriour for their barbarity. I remember having trouble reconciling a schoolmate, a son of Bazilio Olara Okello with the man who reputedly commanded platoons of marauding soldiers that raided homes around Kampala at night! While the son was reputed to own a gun, he was one of the most gentle and cool headed students in school. Obviously because of the schools I attended, I rubbed shoulders with the children of all sorts of people who were notorious at the time. None of the stories I can tell though compare with those of students in day usually mixed schools like Kitante, Kampala or Kololo high that brought guns to school and scared teachers, raped girls or disrupted football matches with rival schools!

My real introduction to true state terror was during Obote II. I have already written about my childhood which is one we all share. I do not subscribe to the claim that the war in the 80′s was urban warfare as opposed to guerilla warfare. There was only one group that subscribed to urban warfare and that was Nkwanga's group that specialised in car jackings and they were really not effective and not much more than bandits. Kayira's group attacked Lubiri barracks on a couple of occasions in the early 80′s leading to Obote's soldiers laying waste to Rubaga, Ndeeba, Mutundwe and surrounding areas. Houses in these areas were deserted and looted beyond recognition! Most of the rest of the time these guerilla groups including the NRM were in the villages and bushes and no one that I know of around Kampala had ever seen one! Sometimes people even argued that they did not exist! Evidence however of their existence and the war that was ongoing in the countryside was abundant in the form of family members and rural -urban migrants who were refugees from Luwero and other theatres of war!

But everyone in Kampala knew that the state was a terrorist. Everyone knew about Makindye barracks and Lubiri barracks and the many people who dissappeared into these places never to return. everyone even children knew about NASA as well as the special forces and various other paramilitary forces. And everyone who lived in Kampala knew not to be outside their house after dark not because there were guerillas lurking about but because there were government soldiers about at night. Everyone knew that having money was dangerous and so was having a beautiful wife or girlfriend. That every idiot with a gun was next to God. That you did not argue with an idiot in a government army uniform and a tax payer funded gun. That everytime you got past a roadbloack was one more day you stayed alive. As children we learnt to recognise fear in adults all around us.

The argument that Museveni was the major architect of the terror in luwero does not wash either because testimony from the residents of Luwero that is well documented in the Human Rights tribunal clearly points the finger at Obote's troops and names names. Furthermore recruits to the NRM were from the residents of this area. Personally having witnessed the behaviour of Obote's troops towards civilians in Kampala that was not a theatre of war, it is not too much of a stretch of my imagination to imagine how they would behave towards civilians when under attack! By the same token the behaviour of Kony and his troops in the north when viewed in light of Obote's troops in Kampala then is not really too surprising as the only difference was their targets. Kony's troops primarily targeted civilians, engaged in hit and run with little attempt to engage the army in head on battles. They practiced a scorched earth policy primarily targeted at causing disaffection among the local population rather than attack military targets. Their various massacres are well documented as well with attribution for various atrocities clearly alloted to Kony's troops by local civilians. Many internally displaced people in the north themselves preferred to move to government controlled areas rather than seek protection from Kony and his troops which does somewhat tell you a little bit about who they considered to be the lesser enemy! There is no doubt however that many army commanders were guilty of profiting from the war as well as being negligent.

My home 5 km from the city centre was 8 roadblocks and at each of those roadblocks one could die, get tortured, get raped or get robbed! I went through 16 roadblocks a day to and from school until my parents decided I was safer in a boarding school and never ever saw a guerilla! These roadblocks were manned by government soldiers. Around this time of the year, going into the city was dangerous as at any time it could get shut down by soldiers looking to steal meat milk, or goods for christmas. A classmate who had six sisters told us how his mother, a widow and all of his sisters got raped in front of him while they were forced to watch. Their home was in Makindye next to the barracks! An uncle of mine dissappeared into Makindye barracks and has never been seen again! Another got shot and killed in our own home and my family had to watch him hold his guts for hours till he died because no one dared drive a car till morning to take him to hospital. Hospitals had embedded intelligence officers who arrested anyone who brought in a gunshot victim on suspicion of being a guerilla. My father got arrested in panda gari cordons several times and I witnessed day light robbery more than once. I know people who were killed for no reason and heard gunshots almost every night! While I continue to marvel at how much our parents shielded us from the mayhem around us we were still exposed to quite a lot! Its a wonder we ever did turn out to be normal adults or are we?

The International conference centre where Obote had offices was also the main detention centre and torture centre for lots of people. You cannot tell me that he did not know what went on right next to and under his own offices!

It is often claimed that Obote built an infrastructure. But its also often neglected to say that Obote inherited a functioning bureaucracy and civil service. This bureaucracy crumbled under his rule in particular in Obote II when salaries meant little. My fathers salary could not pay his transport to work for a week let alone feed us or pay school fees. Finally my parents had to decide that one of them had to leave the civil service and move into private entreprise in order to survive and make ends meet. My mum could not put up any longer with the presence of military guards in the government installation in which she worked so she resigned. I lose track of the number of times that her businesses were robbed by government soldiers and she had to stsart all over again! Finally she just could not stand going to work in the city again and run her businesses by remote from home while minimising excursions into the city centre as she developed panic attacks, something that I now recognise as 'post traumatic stress syndrome'! Its also claimed that he built schools without many specifics as to which schools he built. It has also been stated that each school had a truck and school children were fed. I know for a fact that in Obote II there were tata trucks given out to people that paid bribes for schools that did not exist except on paper. Supplying "air" to government was finessed in Obote II and is not the invention of the NRM government! "Ghosts on the payroll, poor pay or no pay were characteristics of Obote II! The economy too was not rosy with basic commodities always being in short supply and the rural economy was decimated. Tripple digit inflation figures were normal and people needed millions of shillings to buy a loaf of bread. Businessmen and women did not open up shop before checking the US dollar rate on the street as this changed every day! Mugabe did not invent runaway inflation as this was the reality of Obote's Uganda of the 80′s!

Its forgotten that many public schools were actually nationalised schools rather than schools actually built by the government. An example is Nakasero which I attended which was an "European school" nationalised and became a public school. So was St Mary's college Kisubi which was a catholic funded and founded school on private property donated by an aristocrat of Buganda that was nationalised! These schools already had their own infrastructure that was not bequeathed upon them by the government. In Obote II many of these schools also adopted PTA's in order to survive. The official school fees was a pittance and teachers salaries were a joke so parents formed these PTA 's that levied extra fees to run the schools! When I attended kisubi, Kisubi and similar schools were not cheap. Many of the best schools in Uganda have their history in the vision of colonial government and local governments such as the Buganda government and were not government founded schools!

As for roads and hospitals, Musevenis roads and hospitals maybe crap, but Obote's roads were no better! Kampala's main roads were one big pothole! And the hospitals were a cesspool! Services were non existent and parastatals were money draining loads on the public coffers and inefficient! Farmers sold their produce to government marketing boards for peanuts and got little back in exchange paid in arrears upto years later subject to runaway inflation!

I can see the role of cooperatives and believe they should have been saved. I however believe that parastatals were just vehicles through which public money was stolen by government officials and their cronies. Certainly that was the case during Obote II. Those who claim that parastatals should have been saved certainly never listened to Obote's budget speeches. Many parastatals in Obote II were losing money and subsidised by the government. This trend continued in Museveni's regime when he transferred many under NEC industries an army corporation. Many were sold to government officials including Kategaya, Kuteesa. Salim Saleh, Bidandi Ssali, Francis Guma, Tumwiine and others. Government owned houses where run down shells. Many were sold for a pittance and are now multi million dollar residences. th government has divested itself of all of our "family jewels" including major parastatals, cooperatives, foreign embassies, local residential properties etc. The problem is that the funds are nowhere to be seen! UCB was sold while it was still profitable. Local banks were run into the ground. Politicians took loans they never paid back to government banks and cooperatives.

It has been stated that farmers were rich and had access to funds from their produce. That may have been the case in the colonial period and early years of the 60′s but it was less so in the seventies and by the 80′s was no longer the case. In Obote's Uganda, the marketing boards became the vehicle through which farmers were robbed of their produce. Collected from them in exchange for "chits", many went unpaid for a very long time. By the time they were paid at fixed government prices subject to inflation, the money meant nothing! At the time we had runaway inflation. my mother owned several businesses in the city and it was common to see people walk down the street with sacks of cash that really couldnt buy much! Until the market was liberalised in Museveni's 80′s and farmers could sell their produce to private companies in exchange for cash, the government was the only buyer! Coffee Marketing Board was the main vehicle through which farmers were robbed and farmers responded by cutting down their coffee trees! Now the rural economy has been decimated creating a dependent population!

We have been discussing our roads and infrastructure which is chaotic. Our so called development which follows whim rather than a template. Policy is made up on the fly and our village chief walks around dispensing wisdom and favours. Unity is at its lowest with different groups ready to turn on each other at short notice. The big village chief mentality and the colonial governor mentality all got fused into one in our current and past leaders!

Museveni was a beacon of hope in his early years probably because Ugandas so wanted to see some hope and change. We were all hopeful that things were finally going to change. He talked the talk and to some extent walked the talk. He co opted many who were ormer enemies into the movement and in some ways tried to build a coalition of national interests. I agree however that his best years ended in 1996 and he has since become more and more of a liability. He is obviously setting us up for dynastic rule. Like Saddam and Mobutu, his refusal to retire from the centre of our politics has potential to wipe whatever legacy he believes he may have created. He has hung around long enough to make all of the mistakes his predecessors made.

A major blight on Museveni's rule is corruption. While he has always talked the talk against corruption, Museveni has failed to walk the talk. In many ways corruption makes Uganda look like a cartel run by mafia warlords! impunity a major catchword of his early days is a major problem in his government. Many of his so called cadres have been accused of corruption and have gone unpunished. Museveni will go down in history as having presided over a corrupt cabal of thieves!

Security in the north is also a major blight on Museveni's regime. A major problem is the as yet unresolved Mukura Kyaligonza wagon case. While I would not go so far as blaming Museveni for the war in the north, as Uganda's head of state he is responsible for failing to protect civilians against the attacks of Kony and Lakwena. Not only was he and his government culpable by virtue of their failure to protect civilians, they for ten years presided over the IDP's with their attendant casualties in terms of poverty, disease, malnutrition and social destruction. this was gross negligence for which no one ever paid the price. The tendency of his idiots to react with deadly force such as during the so called Buganda rots a security disaster the responsibility for which should be laid squarely at Museveni's feet is also a cause for major concern! Museveni is personally culpable for the people shot during the Buganda riots as he personally ordered a shoot to kill even though his government have so far failed to prove that any of the people they shot were armed or even rioters!

What disturbs me most is the selective justice that demands that Kony be exonerated while Museveni be tried for the war in the north. The same people would like to see Obote celebrated for presiding over chaos and the terrorisation of citizens but wish to see Museveni vilified. its at that point that we all lose the plot and start fighting each other leaving only Museveni as the winner! If we have exonerated everyone else, could contemplate granting the animal Kony amnesty, gave Obote a state funeral as well as a medal in recognition, then it is not too much a price to pay to grant Museveni amnesty and immunity and start all over again with new rules. We need to create he cuture of former heads of state retiring in the country! the same people who sit with kony and call him Jal, are the same people who would like to apply selective justice! the same people who have selective amnesia for the ills of the past are the very same people who wish to place Museveni's real or perceived crimes at the centre of our politics.

I must admit am biased. I did not live in an IDP camp. if I had I would not even countenance Museveni being let off Scot free. Neither can I ever forgive obote. But I accept his burial in Uganda or whatever honours (that I do not believe he deserves) he may have been given posthumously because I believe it is important for Uganda's future. We do need to find things we can agree upon rather than forever emphasising things we shall never agree upon! I know that in Obote's uganda, I was an endangered species. I know that for most of Museveni's regime, I can walk around at night including on foot except in some parts of the country. While am not a direct beneficiary of Museveni's government kleptocracy and the crappy infrastructure and obvious lack of urban planning irks me continuously, I can do my own thing, fly in and out, carry US dollars or any currency, drive whatever car I can afford, or build whatever ugly structure I wish to without getting killed for it! And I can walk down the street with my kyana without being afraid that some idiot with half a brain could take a fancy to her and kill me or rape her!

I would not give my vote to Museveni. But I cannot convince myself that I could give it to any of his opposers either. In many ways our opposition is disappointing. I actualy believe that the best they can do is force him to a rerun which would force them to unite under one leader. While that maybe a good thing for our opposition it would not be a good thing for Uganda. Kenya, Ivory coast, Congo and Zimbabwe are perfect testimony to the fact that our so called democracies are not ready for close indecisive elections which increase the chances of use degenerating into more chaos.

UPC,DP, FDC and the NRM all had chaotic elections that revealed their own internal weaknesses, absence of internal structures as well as hypocrisy and lack of internal democracy. DP, UPC as well as the FDC and the NRM have all failed in the way they have dealt with internal dissent. A perfect example is how the FDC dealt with Ms Kamya. When you review their elections all of which have been marred by dissent, chaos and cries of foul, one wonders whether any of these clowns should be allowed anywhere near the presidency. What it demonstrates most clearly is that the power of the presidency needs to be cut down! This overarching winner take all democracy needs to be rewritten. Term limits also need to be rewritten into our constitution. The basic premise was that we could not leave it to the incumbent to leave while they were still ahead. Museveni is a perfect example of why term limits were written into the 1995 constitution in the first place! It is evident that he has no intention of retiring until he is pushed which is not really in his own or his family's interests and neither is it in ours as a country! It is also increasingly evident that we are going to be saddled with his family and dynastic politics should he pass on!

I would love to see a well articulated response to the governments budget speech for example presenting an alternate budget and campaign promises based on realistic and verifiable figures rather than rhetoric. I would like to see lists of people allegedly killed by this regime rather than blanket statements of the government has killed people. To begin with how about a facebook page of all of the people killed during the Buganda riots and the Kasubi riots? Museveni and his government may increasingly act like the thought police but they cannot control facebook! I would love to see verifiable documentation of corruption rather than simply claims designed for news conferences. The PAC committee was on facebook but how about a "wikileaks" site on facebook for each of the various corruption scandals? I would love to see less posturing and more facts. If you are going to take us to the moon how are you ging to do it and where is the money ging to come from. If you are going to give Buganda federo, how are you going to do it? The claim that the opposition cannot say what they can do because they have not been given a chance simply doesnt wash. These are verifiable figures in the public domain. The leader of the opposition is entitled to access these figures anyway! I would really love to see the opposition raise their game. I would really love to see a new leader challenging Museveni within or without the NRM with more than he has ruled too long and its time someone else ate too? I would love to believe that in changing Museveni we will not be simply exchanging one bunch of "paesants in suits" for another bunch of "paesants in suits" but how do you seriously expect me to take a party that sits down with Hajji Ssebagala and considers him to be one of their leaders seriously? Or someone who refers to Kony as an elder or Jal and thinks he should have a role in government?

Lastly of the economy. While we can blame the World Bank and Structural adjustment programmes from the IMF from a lot of the disengagement from the provision of social services such as health and training, the IMF are not our rulers and we did not elect them. Our government has got to accept responsibility for acting on bad advice.

I have stated before that every Ugandan should be given a bill. In essence I was saying that every Ugandan should be dragged up into the middle class. Middle class people have jobs and create jobs. They consume. They have mortgages. They pay taxes. They buy shares and have investment. Essentially they have a stake in the economy. people who have a stake in the economy make decisions based on their best interest. As it is poor Ugandans have only one stake in government -peace and security. there is no expectation of anything else from the government. People who have a stake in the economy are interested in how government policy affects their jobs, their mortgage interest rates, their retirement funds, their investments. They are interested in the excesses of their government. in essence thats the main difference between our so called democracies and many western democracies. We can afford idiots because as long as they do not molest us at road blocks we can wander around doing our own thing -surviving while those in many western democracies cannot allow imbeciles to lead them to ruin as they all get ruined if they mismanage the country or economy! People who pay taxes and whose fortunes are bound to the economy and government policies take a much closer interest in the workings of governemt and its effects on their personal fortunes. Our parents who were graduates in the 60′s had very bright futures that were affected greatly by Uganda's politics so we should not underestimate the potential for politicians to mess up even the best economies and gains of private entreprise.

My take is that we need both private entreprise and strong government with a vision and policy. The market is not self regulating and you cannot subject citizens to the goodwill of companies whose only motive is profit just like you cannot subject citizens to the goodwill of a leader and expect them to retire of their own free will. There are simply not that many Mandelas and certainly Museveni is not one!

Lunacy is when you keep doing the same thing and expecting a different result! We Ugandans are lunatices and we do need our heads examined!
