## [Bad manners fighting over food](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/bad-manners-fighting-over-food/10150175196427681)

Monday, April 25, 2011 at 11:05am ·

http://www.facebook.com/notes/mugerwa-james/nina-mbabazi-officially-against-nrmmuseveni-the-oppositions-big-fish-or-should-i/216921605001221?ref=notif¬if_t=like

Christine, this Mugerwa man has got some really bad manners. He starts a fight whenever there is food. Interestingly its always with people he wishes to wrest food from.

In the past he started a fight with Muhiire. He hoped to divert Muhire's forum to his own devices and present it to his handlers as a trophy. When he was rebuffed he became peevish. You remember those peeved teenage wannabee boyfriends who would never accept no for an answer and continued harrassing the object of their desire, stalking them, picking fights and otherwise becoming a nuisance. Nathan had to put out a virtual restraining order but the man kept inviting himself, climbing in through the window, peeping into bathrooms etc. He even formed upto 6 online personas just to get a peep into Muhire's forum after each of them was blocked. He became angry and obnoxious and even obscene and invited ex girlfriends to vouch for him too. Sometimes he hired people to write letters for him when his own English just couldn't do the trick.

At all times he tries to portray himself as an insider which he obviously is not. At the very best he is a lackey, a minion, paid to do a job, hoping to get a leg up. That he or one of his handlers knows a bit of the NRA's military history especially the Congo and South sudanese conflicts is not in doubt. Actually he has at times said more than he should have said and more than likely put his handlers in a difficult position. the problem with talking too much is one needs a brain to keep track of the lies and contradictions. Being under the influence sometimes does not really help.

When Nina first came here and took me on, a bad idea, Mugerwa tried to ingratiate himself. Identify himself with the princess. Present his loyal arms. Unfortunately toadies are not impressive and neither do they get respect. they are simply paid to do a job and when they fail to know their position, they are put in their place. Mugerwa now acts like the houseboy who was hoping to score with the lady of the house and got angry when he was reminded he was just the house help. Now he is getting even. 

Now this fight with Nina is to portray him as a loyal cadre more loyal than those and brought up in the movement. In effect he is saying that his boss Amama cannot maintain his own household so its upto him a minion to discipline the bosses daughter. Not only to do so but to make the humiliation as public as possible. One then starts to get a feel for who the real target maybe. 

Did the NRm suddenly become democratic overnight, unlikely. I take Chwezi's point about other parties including the FDC. I will point him to one of my notes on the issue. Interestingly the same people who criticised Kamya such as Anne Mugisha are the ones who have come out recently to complain about the same. But this here is not about FDC. This is about whether it is an expression of disloyalty for a daughter brought up in priviledge which priviledge depends on the party has got the right to question the party structures and masters. Whether a son or daughter is allowed to have an independent mind or whether they have got to be assumed to have to toe the party line or remain silent. Whether for them to express an independent mind is supposed to make them fair targets for anyone who wishes to do so. I had a chat with my father just yesterday. Without going into details while my father has nowhere near the party pedigree that Nina's father has, he and I are in opposite camps when we discuss Museveni and his government. That does not make me disloyal to him when I make it clear that I would be very happy when Museveni returns to his farm in kisozi or Rwakitura to count his cows and Uganda has a peaceful handover of power. I know he is proud that i have an independent mind even though I do not agree with him but then again he and I have very different experiences of living in Uganda having been born at different times.

I would like to believe that the next few years are going to be years of realignment of interests not blind political party ideology. Its the only way that the NRM will survive if they so wish. In embracing a more liberal and questioning youth the NRM may be able to survive. if they leave party policy to be dictated by autocratic and mindless cadres such as Mugerwa, they will sure as hell be washed down the dust bin of history. this same process is happening in the other parties. DP is realigning as is UPC. In FDC questions are being asked. Mamdani put it best when he suggested that the W2W campaign was the beginning of a reform in both the NRM and in other parties and the victor would be the one who started a reform first. 

Nina could be independent. She could be a priviledged girl having her eureka moment and like an adolescent girl being recklessly dangerous. Or she maybe a well trained party cadre playing a game to win, skillfully playing everyone in a game people of average intelligence like Mugerwa cannot begin to fathom.

If Mugerwa is out on a lone campaign, I can guarantee him his paycheck is about to end and he is about to lose his head. If he is being paid, again its because he is dispensable and he will still lose his head. This fight is way above Mugerwa's pay grade.

  
Filed under: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/nina/) Tagged: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/nina/)
