## Potholes, poor infrastructure and peasants in suits!

Tuesday, June 15, 2010 at 7:58am


The problems of being led by [‘peasants in suits’][paesants].

The difference between a cattle track and a road is lost upon them!

Seeing thousands of cars gridlocked on the roads is ‘development’ if you never ever saw a car until you were an adult!… See More

Living in a big house whose roof has a million crazy angles is to have ‘arrived’ if you grew up in a one roomed hut never mind all you have is a glorified cattle track for access!

If a high wall separates you from your neighbours and tinted glass separates you from the ‘great unwashed’, you are a ‘great man’!

If you deign from time to time to ‘bless’ funerals uninvited with your presence and throw some stolen coins in the mud for the paesants to grovel, in your mind, you are a ‘generous man’ worthy of being elevated to the doubtful status of ‘honourable’! Its lost upon you that when you steal the only cow in the village and poison everybody else’s, the whole village will become dependent while you, and your fat wives and kids whizz past in your air conditioned transport!

That stench, which stench? You must be a spoilt little daughter of petit bourgeois parents! Why else would you complain about the stench! dont you see that 27 people fought for you while you cowered under the bed and your parents benefited from facism?

A long time ago, my sister asked Museveni on TV after a mchaka mchaka course at kyankwanzi why his government officials were corrupt. This was very early in his regime when people were being fed a daily fare of ‘we fought’!

Museveni’s response was to ask her who her parents were. She responded that her parents were paesants who were irrelevant to the question! He then went on to tell her that he thought that her parents were ‘petit bourgeois’, that she must have led a priviledged life and hence her question! They could not be paesants! He never answered the question except to say that his cadres were well politicised and could not be corrupt!

Almost 20 years later, that story has worn thin! We know that Museveni’s cadres are corrupt. When a jumped up village boy whose only education is a few years running around the bush and a 3 month stint in Kyankwanzi, becomes the richest man in the neighbourhood without owning or running a business or manufacturing anything, one has to wonder.

A luganda proverb says something to the effect that when you see black feathers in your neighbours property, then you know where your black cock dissappeared to!

A long time ago, whenever a new budget came out, economists and academicians from Makerere as well as the main opposition parties would discuss them in the media and public forums. In other countries, the shadow finance minster and the opposition parties, release a budget of their own using the same figures the government is using to make their promises.

Does the FDC have an alternate budget? They should have access to current and projected government income and should be able to come out with their own budget to buttress their own campaign promises beyond simply bleating ‘four legs good, two legs bad’!

The opposition need to articulate their positions and make alternate promises using verifable figures and data available from URA, finance, bureau of statistics etc. If they criticise a budget, they need to state why the states budget is wrong and theirs is right. if the government makes campaign promises for the next year, they can use the same figures to make their own campaign promises.

We need to go beyond sloganeering. Else we only end up exchanging one bunch of paesants in suits for another bunch of paesants in suits!


[paesants]: Colloquially being a paesant in uganda is synonymous with being ignorant and unschooled. The political classes have been dubbed the term "paesants in suits" to suggest that while they affect the mannerisms and dress of the educated middle classes, they behave like the unschooled and ignorant masses.
