## [Predictions -Museveni will be removed by his own people not the opposition](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150112633092681)

Monday, March 7, 2011 at 11:00pm


Today someone asked me what my prediction for the next few years was. i hjave made similar predictions in the past some of which were accurate.

 

Museveni will become more paranoid over the next few years. Certainly if he has no plans of retiring, he is going to have to become more oppressive for things will get tougher and people more radical! Ambitious NRM insiders will become more and more agitated as they too are approaching 75 years particularly if the terms are extended to 7 or 10 years! Chances are that Museveni is going to be removed by his own people. I do not see the opposition being able to remove him now but his own party as well as army if they are reading the signs and mood of the country as well as that on the continent must be getting restless!

 

Those on the inside who wish to remove him will be using the very same arguments that we as well as the opposition have made. Lack of democracy, removal of term limits, prolonged incumbency, succession issues, shifting goal posts. those who are still true to the ideals of the movement or those who get a crisis of confidence as they get older will be questioning the status quo!

 

those who have promoted the claim of only one man holding the vision to Ugandan's future are starting to look foolish and may wish to make remedies while those who suspect that Museveni has dynastic plans may now become galvanised.

 

Whether the move to retire Museveni is political or military is going to be the issue. Its is possible that Museveni would chose to resist a political removal and treat it as treason! one wishes that the NRM was the ANC and the party had institutions that transcended the individual! The least bloodless would be political but his control of the party is too absolute. But when you see his own men like Mbabazi cracking, then you can see that there's going to be trouble.

 

If museveni has succession plans for Muhoozi which I believe he does, the next few years are going to be for building a powerbase for Muhoozi both within the army and outside the army. That means selected and handpicked young and mid career recruits as well as sidelining those opposed to project Muhoozi! Muhoozi took his own friends with him when he joined the army and there were previous rumours of him recruiting his friends to ISO. He also has his own army within the army having control of all of the crack troops and mechanised troops. Plus he has access to the main business cash cow soon to come online which is oil as part of his brief is protecting the oil fields. this of course will lead to options, partnerships and chairs on oil company and supporting infrastructure boards once he has been civilianised after promotion to General and likely being granted a medal for his action against kony in Garamba even though it was a failure!

 

There is also Salim saleh who has control and command of the reserve forces -if there is anyone South of the Sahara, who can russle up and create an army very fast from scratch, fast its got to be him. Between his reserve forces, his veterans association and his Saracen security/mercenary outfit, his Rwandese, Sudanese/SPLA, Congolese and Somali/Putland connections, I doubt that there is anyone south of the Sahara who can build an army from scratch as fast! He is another person to watch as if the army decided to get rid of Museveni he would be backup if the sons troops got overwhelmed.

 

The real question is going to be whether when the time comes, the son is intelligent enough to read the signs or whether he is going to tough it out and fight! this of course could become anywhere from a congo to  a Libya!

 

The next few years could see a purge of people previously considered to be loyalists simply because for those who are ambitious, time is running out. The longer Museveni remains president, the less likely it is that they will have their chance too! People like Mbabazi stand a risk of getting replaced by people like Nsibambi or Atubo who are not really threats! Amelia Kyambadde is a new comer and loyalist who could potentially replace people like Bukenya!

 

The next few years are going to be interesting to watch!
