## [Temangalo -response from the people](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/temangalo-response-from-the-people/10150111467897681)

Sunday, March 6, 2011 at 6:50am ·


http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=1880182644958&set=a.1385608760920.55855.1253045398&theater

@Your honour Twinoburyo,

I am wondering why this trial was convened in camera and my name taken in vain as I do not remember being party to the proceedings recorded here! Counsel may have mistaken me for another or tampered with the court record! Your honour, I move that any comments on the court record fraudulently attributed to me be struck from the court record and that opposing counsel be cautioned!

Am also wondering why the defence introduced new evidence during the trial that they did not avail to the prosecution prior to the case. Am also wondering why this "new evidence" was not tabled during previous trials. Does the defendent have something to hide?

I move therefore that evidence introduced during the trial be struck off the public record and that court be reconvened in an open court as these matters are of interest to the general public!

There is a public interest to defend here. The public as stakeholders in government as well as in the NSSF have a right to know and court has the duty to allow them access to this court session. On the 19th Oct 2008, the Monitor Newspaper reported that "Security Minister Amama Mbabazi peddled political influence and had a conflict of interest in the controversial Shs11 billion National Social Security Fund-Temangalo land deal, the parliamentary committee investigating this matter concluded on Saturday." the same opinion was carried by the "Legal Brief Africa' a newsletter of Legal Brief international, the "global voice of the legal profession". 

It is true that Power of Attorney is a legal instrument designed to distance one actor with a potential conflict of interest from the proceedings. It is not however an instrument designed to avoid responsibility. The donor in this case Hon. Mbabazi, retains responsibility for the activities of Amos Nzeyi, his POA! Counsel attempts to use this instrument as a subterfuge to suggest that Hon. Mbabazi had no knowledge of and played no part in the proceedings of the land sale. Most importantly, he attempts to infer that the donor of a POA in this case Hon Mbabazi is not responsible for the actions of the donee, in this case Mr Amos Nzeyi! I wish to respectfully say, your honour, that this is not true! Hon Mbabazi is bound by any actions that his attorney enters into on his behalf in completing the transaction that is the subject of that POA. 

The prosecution will present confessions from Mr Chandi Jamwa widely published in the newspapers and now a matter of public record, demonstrating that this deal was characterised by corrupt behaviour including influence peddling, conflict of interest, misrepresentation, political pressure, impunity and cronism. That undue political pressure and influence were imposed upon the Manager of NSSF by Hon Mbabazi's attorney for whose actions Mbabazi himself remains responsible, Suruuma, the supervising Minister for NSSF, Mbabaazi's tribesmate, business partner and compatriot. That the NSSF board was compromised in that at least two members, Edward Gaamuwa and Ms Joyce Acigwa, not including the manager and the deputy manager another crony of Mbabazi and Suruuma as well as a tribesmate of both Mbabazi and Nzeyi and all four shareholders in the "Bakiga bank", were partners of Suruuma in a microfinance institution! Suruuma as shown in evidence tabled before you in this court had in interest in this matter that went beyond his role as the supervising minsietr for the NSSF. As Jamwa's confession demonstrated, he also played an active part in pressuring his subordinate to approve this deal!

This your honour, was a "loaded" board that should have disqualified themselves from having anything to do with the proceedings of the purchase of this land as should have Suruuma and Kagonyera!

Your honour, the defence at this stage attempt to introduce "new evidence" disputing the number and authenticity of "bona fide" squatters! Evidence that they did not produce in the parliamentary inquiry where Mbabazi, Suruma, Kagonyera and Nzeyi were all interviewed about this matter! I submit that this evidence be struck from the public record too as counsel is trying to be creative with the law! Under the new land law brought in by among others Hon Mbabazi, 'bona fide' squatters do not have to have a historical. Furthermore the fact that Hon. Mbabazi and his partners knowingly sold land to the NSSF without acknowledging the presence of squatters is fraudulent as they should have compensated them first. Your honour no evidence has been presented to this court by opposing counsel to demonstrate that those squatters that he now acknowledges, were catered for in the contract of sale! (Correction -the contract of sale stipulated that the vendors had to compensate the existing squatters. The vendors breached this term as squatters were not compensated and are still claiming compensation)

At least 5 led by one Mpagi as late as dec 2010 contacted parliament seeking compensation. this was reported by the Monitor

"Reported By Turyatemba David

Five Tenants led by Mzee Paul Mpagi today stormed proceedings of the parliamentary committee on Statutory and State Enterprises that was meeting officials from NSSF led by the Acting Managing Director Grace Isabirye.

The Committee Chairperson Regan Okumu asked NSSF to deal with the complaining tenants to avoid damaging their image before the public.

Grace Isabirye has promised to handle the matter with parties that sold the land to the Fund.

Mpagi said they have tried in vain to meet the Security minister ever since the controversial transaction in vain.

The testimony of this article contradicts counsels claim that there were only two squatters who were both compensated on the purchase of the land long before the sale to NSSF! It also demonstrates the lie in counsels implication that the Temangalo was sold to the NSSF without encumbraces!

On the 15th oct 2010, Mr Byarugaba, the new MD of the NSSF informed the parliamentary committee on commissions, that while the titles for Temangalo had been availed to the NSSF, 3 years after paying for Temangalo, the NSSF had failed to take possession due to encumbrances including squatters that the vendors have not paid contrary to agreements they signed that required the vendor to clear them. http://allafrica.com/stories/201010150047.html With impunity, Mr Nzeyi continues to occupy the house he sold to the NSSF and received payment for! The seller should therefore be compelled to pay interest on all monies advanced to them due to this breach of contract! 

In this story reported in the Observer in 2009 (Temangalo squatters say 'no' to Mbabazi, Written by Edris Kiggundu Sunday, 12 July 2009), 2 of 5 squatters accepted agreements to accept smaller acreage in exchange for titles. 3 others refused and are still contesting for compensation. They is also an allegation of pressure and coercion in trying to get bona fide tenants to accept the contracts drawn up by hon Mbabazi and his partners! 

Under the new land law to which Hon. Mbabazi was a party, the sale of squatters and their interest in land is a felony punished by upto 14 years in prison. I submit therefore that hon Mbabazi and his partners in addition to flouting all of the above laws, are guilty of abusing the new land laws of this land.

Opposing counsel tables as defence that many other big men in this government continue to deal with government and are guilty of influence peddling too! She also attempts in mitigation to claim the absence of a law sanctioning such deals. This apparently should be taken to mean that powerful governemtn ministers should be a llowed to do as they wish with public money because there is no law sanctioning it! Your honour, that is anarchy. It belies the confidence that ugandans place in their leaders which includes the duty to maintain ethics and basic morality in their transactions involving public money!

As a senior minister in this government that has for the last 25 years presided over unprecedented corruption, Hon Mbabazi should inform this court whether it was official policy for his government to leave such obvious loopholes that allow him and his cronies to profit from the absence of conflict of interest laws. It would also be of interest to know whether this is the reason we do not have proceeds of crime laws under which the proceeds of crime as well as any assets used in the commission of a crime should be seized by the state! The public has got a right to know if he and his colleagues in this government have deliberately stunted our anti corruption laws in order to continue enriching themselves with impunity!

The NSSF is a cash cow that holds workers money to the tune of trillions of shillings. It is the largest single deposit of cash in the country. In the past money has been lost in shady transactions some involving ministers and government cronies. It is in the interests of the public that this case be treated with utmost seriousness. Consider the message that this court will send out to the general public if your conclusion is that the most powerful minister in this government together with his cronies maybe allowed to raid workers money whenever it suits them and be allowed to get away with impunity without even so much as a slap on the wrist! that the people who are supposed to protect our money are the same people leaving windows open so they and their cronies can sneak in at night without consequences!

It is also relevant too given that counsel for the defence will attempt to 'prove' to this court that Mr Mbabazi has already been tried in parliament and found to be innocent of all charges. He was also declared 'innocent' by his boss, the president of this government with whom they have presided over corruption in this country for 25 years citing 'political persecution'!

Your honour, recent events in this country have clearly demonstrated that we cannot take the word of this government as well as that of the parliament which is so biased in numbers towards the ruling party as to be a rubberstamp for the ruling party and the executive of which Mr Mbabazi is a member!

The people therefore need to have their own trial which they were denied in the political circus that passed for a parliamentary inquiry! Could you believe that Mr Mbabazi was allowed to access and influence MP's and members of the committee during their inquiry outside of formal hearings and that the government machinery was lent to his defence through paid hacks like Karooro, Nagenda, Opondo and Cheeye and that the speaker of parliament was himself partisan! 

Could this be all of these big wigs defending themselves from the effects of retruning a guilty verdict as they all as opposing counsel demonstrates do business with this government? Your honour, this is an example of the left hand doing business with the right hand and the brain pretending it does not know what is going on!

The people have already passed their verdict in the court of public opinion and have stated clearly that much as the politicians may continue to claim that Mr Mbabazi and his mates were not guilty of influence peddling and conflict of interest in addition to flouting numerous rules in the Temangalo affair all of which amount to corruption for which he should have resigned his post, the people do not believe them!

That all of the legalese and fancy terms thrown around so glibly by my learned colleague will not convince them that this government is serious on corruption as long as powerful people like Hon Mbabazi clearly and with impunity manipulate the system without any consequences for themselves or their political careers and reputation!

Lastly your honour, for having accepted comments that were clearly fraudulently attributed to me to remain a part of the court record, I submit that you have allowed yourself to be unduly influenced just like is everyone else in this country! I respectfully submit that you have demonstrated a conflict of interest and move that you should disqualify yourself from further proceedings in this matter and a new court reconvened to deal with this matter in the publics best interest!

Your honour, I hearby rest my case!

http://www.independent.co.ug/reports/special-report/585-nssf-jamwa-exposes-suruma-nzeyi-trickery

http://ugandanpolitics.blogspot.com/2008/10/nssf-scandal-jamwa-spills-more-beans.html

  
Filed under: [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/category/nina/) Tagged: [Mbabazi](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/mbabazi/), [Nina](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/nina/), [Temangalo](http://ddembe.wordpress.com/tag/temangalo/)
