## [Too little too late -government by crisis](https://www.facebook.com/notes/drew-ddembe/too-little-too-late-government-by-crisis/10150289484287681)

Tuesday, September 6, 2011 at 10:04pm ·


Nina Mbabazi says,

Teachers! Should government increase salary by 100% now which is equal to 1 trillion? Doctors, Civil Servants, Police are also threatening strike so we hear. If the army joins them, that will mean 4 trillion. Budget was 9.8 trillion. MPs cut 60 bn in wasteful expenditure and fail to cut more. What can be done without collapsing the economy? Or must it collapse before being rebuilt?

Its all a question of timing. The government missed the boat! They are going to have to negotiate with a very hostile and fed up workforce!

THe government has missed the boat! For 25 years it was obvious that teachers (as well as many other key professionals) were under remunerated!

But like with everything else in this country, public polic is made up on the run!

This day was due to come at some point. Teachers were never going to wait forever. In the 80′s when Museveni told Ugandans that everyone had to tighten their belts, people listened.

But now everyone knows that belt tightening was just for the rest of us. Not the Museveni's, not for the Mbabazi's or Kutesa's or Muhwezi's! In partnership with cronies like the Basajjabalaba's and various others large sums of taxpayer money finds its way into private pockets.

This government can no longer convince people that they should tighten their belts while waiting for the economy to get better! At this rate they will wait till the afterlife!

Of course there are good reasons to tighten fiscal policy including freezing wages, increasing interest rates and reducing the amount of cash in circulation. Which of course is going to cause a riot among increasingly frustrated and angry workers!

The obvious consumption an fiscal indiscipline of this government and its cronies does not mark them as partners with workers. money in the billions thrown at an election to ensure the re election of a tired old man who has run out of ideas and should be stepping down and handing over the baton to another person. Trillions wasted on fighter jets to keep up with the joneses. Billions wasted on a top heavy political leadership with no dscernible value added. Billions spent on bribes to legislators to pass stupid laws that Ugandans do not need like muzzling the Kabaka all because of the ego of one man!

Prime Minster Mbabazi may not realise this but if he takes on the long suffering workers of this country at this point in time instead of dialoguing with them, it is going to be his waterloo -just like Kayihura met his!
