## What does the state of the economy say about public confidence in the current government?

Monday, April 4, 2011 at 10:11pm


Nina Mbabazi says, 

"on 2nd July, 2007 The Norwegian Council for Africa warned that Uganda's 2007/2008 increase in fuel taxes would double food prices. A story covered by New Vision that day. What was the increase that sparked off this upward turn of food prices?"_

[](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150150814942681)

I think the problem is not fuel prices but elsewhere in a more simple reason -consumer confidence in the stability of the country and the government of the day.  
   
   
In many organised soscieties that hold frequent elections, one can track economic performance and financial market behaviour and match it to investor and consumer confidence.   
   
   
At times of uncertainty including elections, markets, interest rates, commodity prices, mortgage rates, employee recruitment  and consumer confidence tend to decline. These pick up once the political situation stabilises or consumers start to consume again.  
   
   
The real or perceived stability of a government or its performance can affect markets and consumer confidence in negative ways.  
   
   
In Uganda, there is always uncertainty around elections. Fuel prices, comodity prices, transport prices increase while buyer behaviour changes with hoarding of essential comodities and reduction of non essential expenditure. I vividly remember my parents stocking up on such comodities -and US dollars.  
   
   
Normally there is a quick recovery and business returns to normal but this is not happening this time around. it may have something to do with the heightened state of anxiety caused by the visible military presence on the streets as well as the fear caused by all of that military hardware, or it may just simply reflect the fundamentals -that people do not have confidence in Museveni anymore despite his "win"!  
   
   
Since the last election, there has been negative economic news each day. Uncontrolled and irresponsible government expenditure -bribing LC's -6.5 billion, bribing MP's -6.5 billion, bribing the electorate -600 billion, buying new fighter jets -trillions, swearing in 'new' old president -30 billion, pension arrears 65 billion, salary arrears for civil servants, announcements that government is broke, rising fuel prices, rising inflation, lower tax revenue collection, rising USD rate etc!  
   
   
If one were to make predictions from the state of the economy right now, one would say that Museveni's government is on the way down!
