## [When change comes from very unlikely places! (5)](https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=10150089449782681)  

Wednesday, January 26, 2011 at 7:41am


@ Ruhweza,

I told Maria a few days ago following her "plea" that Museveni be given one more and final term (we have heard that one several times before) that the majority of Ugandans don't care about the past for the simple reason that 78 %... of them were not there and had no first hand experience of Amin and Obote II.

That this generation of "Museveni kids" under thirty is rapidly becoming a political force that will need to be engaged. Right now they maybe impressed by "anaza rapu" but that will not last very long. It is this generation that brought down the regime in Tunisia. Large, young, poor, unemployed, no connection to past deprivations, educated, having access to information and communication technologies and networking tools -essentially having no connection to the economy and the so called "success" and "economic miracle" of Ben Ali's regime.

In Ugandan we are rapidly developing a class of people who have no connection to the past and none to the present either. Their future looks bleak. Some may and will commit suicide, but many will and are starting to clamour for inclusion in the political process and the economic "miracle" and will not be palliated much longer by platitudes and "patriotic songs" of about a time they cannot identify with! They live in the present and for the future and need to start believing that Uganda has got something to offer them else they will have no compunctions about burning it down!

This is where NRM insiders and the privileged have got to start acting for change before it is too late else they too will be burnt down while Museveni is flying over Jeddah looking for asylum! They have to consider all options including an NRM without Museveni or a complete change of government by looking at the options outside the NRM if it is resistant to change!

This includes the Maria's who have built up a piece of the pie for themselves -the only way they will be allowed to keep that piece is if they learn to share some of it! Likewise the privileged second generation the children of the NRM apparatchiks like Nina have to start questioning the official line and acting in their best interests if they wish to live in Uganda unmolested. A very rich and privileged granduncle of mine during the Amin days who was related by adoption to a Nubian family ended up in exile in Juba and Kenya, had his family scattered outside Uganda and his business empire and home destroyed when Amin fell from power. He was perceived to have benefited from state patronage given he traded with and communicated with Nubians. Other people related in some way to the Obote regime are still in exile and their children are still scattered around the world!

The next election presents a potential problem. Specifically if the NRM continues to lose approx 10% of the vote as it has at each subsequent election in the past, it can only get 49% +/- a few percentage points. This means they will win with a slight margin, have a run off or lose the election by a slight margin. Whichever way you look at it, they will have a significant minority in opposition to the NRM!

This brings us to Kenya, Ivory coast, Congo and Zimbabwe! in all of these countries, close elections have resulted in election violence and a state of emergency!

The tendency of the NRM government and the army to react to demonstration with kiboko squads and live bullets as well as the refusal by the police to grant permits for demonstrations against the NRM creates a situation where one needs only a spark to trigger a riot. Outrage at state violence begets more violence as happened in the Buganda riots!

We have all of the ingredients of Kenya and Tunisia. this election maybe the flashpoint. Bringing soldiers out of the barracks and reacting in the same knee jerk half brained fashion that previous public dissent has been managed will bring very predictable results -more radicalisation of the streets!

The army need to stay in the barracks. The police need to be allowed to do "policing"! Unfortunately am afraid that a government that has people like Ochora making decisions will deliver a very predictable result unless they can acknowledge that there is increasing discontent rather than use the stupid cop out of "incitement" by terrorists and the opposition!

The weakest and least powerful of Tunisians is the one that brought down Ben Ali's government not the opposition and not terrorirsts! A young man who made the supreme sacrifice out of desperation and not courage!
